Wine_Stats
	To entertain and please my bosses, coworkers and self
	For full stats see wines.xls

To Do: present these one at a time at the lab meetings.

Proceedure
	The majority of the stats can be done by copying the methodology on any page of the wines.xls document
	After scores have been standardized they can be loaded into stata using the data editor and "pwcorr *, print(0.05)"
	will give the correlation matrix.  By selecting the results and right clicking copy table they can be pasted int excel.


Results in a google Doc https://docs.google.com/Doc?id=dffrkdrs_182hptkmrcz#
and on the web http://janus.northwestern.edu/wololab/fun.php
        
        




Aug 7 2009 - Summer Stuedents/Dave
	Summary
		Red > Sweet > White
		Rheingrafenberg (Riesling), Opolo (Paso Robles), Alacaia (Cab) were best
		Tres Valles (Sauvignon Blanc) and Selecta (White Burgandy) were poorly received.

	Awards
		harshest reviewer	Marissa, Rick, Eleni
		Softest reviewer	Zebin, Mushroom, and Cornelius
		Most Deviant		Christine
		Most Stable		Dave	
		Feminine		Sarah, Eleni
		Masculine		Ye, Nathan

	Anecedotes
		Selecta White Burgandy			Sarah		"men..."	
		Rendeo Syrah (2005)			Dave		"tastes like an elephant cage smells"
		Cook's Sparkaling White Zin		Nick		rated |e^pi*i|
		Bellatore's Spumante			Kat		"girl crush"
							Graham		name written - "Graham Cracker from CinciNasty"
		Mary Michelle's Cynthiana (2004)	Caronline	"too earthy aka tastes like dirt"

	Pairings
		Gayle: Ye
		Christine: Nathan
		Caroline: Marissa, Cornelius
		Kat: Cornerlius
		Marrissa: Michael, Nick		
		Zebin: Michael
		Michael: Nathan

		Dave: !Tanja









Ted's Defense
	Summary:
		Red > White > Sweet
		Opolo, Lindermans, and Pacific Crest were favorites
		Les Tortues and Cook's were poorly recieved (perhaps due to the name)
	
	Awards
		harshest reviewers		- Jess, Travis, and Phillip Vick
		softest reviewers		- Qiong, Gayle, and Jeff
		most deviant 			- Timmy, No-name and Rueben
		most stable			- Jess and Caroline
		manliest			- Jess
		most feminine			- Ben
		Cartography Award		- Caroline for her map of the western hemisphere


	Anecedotes
		"Yum, Yum"			- Rueben to Cook's Blush Champaign
		"Like Koolaide w/ Liquor"	- Schilnk Haus's sweet red
		"Question Your legs", "Yowza"	- Beau to the Westend Shiraz and Opolo Sangiovese respectively
		"Sweet and Complex like me"	- Caroline to the Viognier

	Pairings
		Tanja: Travis
		Gayle: Beau
		Jess: Ben
		Qiong: Caroline
		NoName: Jeff
		Phillip: Eric
		Ted: Ben
		Reuben: Qiong
		Timmy:Jess				

		Caroline : !Timmy






















Jin Ju's Shower
	Summary:
		Sweet > Red > White for everyone
		Opolo, Villagaichi, and Bevlamo were favorites
		Bracebridge Cellar and Villa Masetti were poorly recieved
	
	Awards
		harshest reviewers		- 2 Anonymous and Megan boyle
		softest reviewers		- Gayle, Anonymous, and Eric
		most deviant 			- Caroline, Hans and Kavita
		most stable			- Tanja and Gayle
		manliest			- Ben
		most feminine			- Tanja


	Anecedotes
		"Am I getting drunk or is this really good"  	-Anonomous 	Petite Sirah
		"THis = GOD"					-Kavita		Pinot Noir
		Kavita and Megan scored digits, eachothers
		"I got all of these [rated] in two ours!"	-Caroline

	Pairings
		Gayle:	Tanja
		Tanja: Megan Boyle
		Kavita: Eric and Megan Boyle
		Megan: Ben, Eric, and the averages
		Ted: ben
	
	
		
Eric's Defense
	Summary:
		Red > Sweet > White though girls prefer sweet
		Opolo, Robert Hall, and Dezzani are favorites
		Tres Valley and Hermits view were poorly recieved
	
	Awards
		harshest reviewers		- Kat and Beau
		softest reviewers		- Rueben, Linda, and Gayle
		most deviant 			- Kat, Amit, and Christine
		most stable			- Arielle, Gayle, and Jeremy
		manliest			- Gayle and Ted
		most feminine			- Qiong


	Anecedotes
		Arielle turns in two sheets
		"Angel Kisses"					- Kat		Skouros
		"Excellent!  The sugar is Speaking"		- Michael Brown	Dezzani
		Ted has clout in the mexican Mafia
		Beau is a whiz with a sharpe (beautiful drawings)
		Christine gave a 2X rating					Opolo
		Ruben loves bunny
		Qiong rated a 1.234						French Rabbit
		Opa!						- Susan Brown
		"Full of Meat"					- Arielle	Baron De Barbon

		"Am I getting drunk or is this really good"  	-Anonomous 	Petite Sirah
		"THis = GOD"					-Kavita		Pinot Noir
		Kavita and Megan scored digits, eachothers
		"I got all of these [rated] in two ours!"	-Caroline

	Pairings
		Arille: Qiong and Linda but not with Gayle
		Susan Brown: Qiong and Linda
		Gayle: Christine and Ted
		Christine: Amit
		Kat: not with Ben
		Jermy: Michael Haley and not Ted
		
		







Summary
	Sweet and sparkling wines were big favorites
	Popular	1. EOS Mascato, 2. Wilhelm's Vidal 3. Fredric Cellars Cabernet.  
	While EOS was the most popular wine among women it was the penultimate wine among men who preffered Domaine Ste Michelle.
	Takeda's Red table wine was the least popular.

Awards
	harshest reviewers		- Moke, Christine, and NoName
	softest reviewers		- Angie, Ye and Gayle
	most different pens used award 	- Jeremy
	schizophrenic rating award 	- Jeremy 	(rated the desert wine 1.4/5.0)
	schizophrenic scribbles award 	- Mushroom	(for symbols in chinese, English, Aremiec?, cursive, print and arrows )
	best coffee readings		- Tanja		(cat's in 2nd)


Quotables
	"trampy Wine"		- Columbia Crest Gewurztraminer 	- Angie
	"Best for Boggle"	- Frederick Cellars Cabernet		- Angie
	"Bogglelishicious"	- Columbia Crest Gewurztraminer		- Caroline
	"best for Boggle"	- Los Planos Syrah			- Marissa
	"what can I say, this polish girl loves her vodka"		- Monika Pabian "Moko"
	"doesn't taste like alcohol! dangerous!" (EOS Moscato)		- Kat
	"you know what it tastes like to me, it tastes like venison"	- Caroline
	"best while operating the auto stainer" (Solaz Tempranillo-Cabernet) 	- Marissa
	"OMG I repent, I repent" (7 Deadly Zins)			- Arielle!

Pairings
	Angie 	: Marissa or Narissa
	Qiong 	: Marissa
	Nick 	: Kat
	Ye	: Ben
	Dave	: Marrissa, Lisette, Qiong, Ted, or Ye
	Cornelius: Ye
	Dave	: average or female






Funny:
	Beau Anarchy symbols in NA
	"me likey", "taste like leather" - croatian wine
	Arielle and Matt 1.25's
	tanja gives ranges "2.2-2.5"


May 2
	deb, dana and neva are most opinionated
	Matt, Gayle and Dave G. are the least opionated
	Gaye, Elonda and Neva are the softest reviewers
	Dana, Dave G. and Deb are the toughest

	gayle drinks with elonda
	neva drinks with lea
	phil drinks with tanja, gayle, elonda or lea
	John, Matt and Dave G are manly
	Gayle, Lea, and Dana are feminine
	
	Opolo rhapsody red was the fav
	Matanzas Creek red merlot took #2
	Tabor Hill Cabernet Franc red was the worst
	Wilhelm blended rose was second worst

	Sweet/Sparkling was the overall fav for both m and f
	rose was the least fav

Aug 1st
	AiGuo, John and Caroline are the nicest reviewers. 
	Beau Cecille and Stella are the toughest reviewers.
	Fumie, Kat and Basia are the most opinionated
	Dave, Narissa and AiGuo are the least opinionated.
	
	Tanja shouldn't drink with marissa, narissa or casey
	John should drink with marissa and caroline
	Dave should drink with Zach
	Hans and Casey are Manly

	Opolo (a red grand rouge) was the top wine
	Fre (red alcohol free) was the worst, followed by Domaine Markou

	men like red
	women like sweet/sparkling
	red or sweet/sparkling took the top 5 spots in both contests	
	


03/19/2010 - 3 hours 
    I rearranged the website so that it included these reports rather than the original table of average scores.  I also added a rolling cycle of Carolines Pictures.  Still the code for all of that is really messy, but wouldn't it be better if I spent my coding work on more interesting problems.