admisssions_essay.txt
	To get into graduate studies

11/2/09

	In my youth I was interested in many things, biographies, mythology, prime numbers, and warren buffet.  In talks with my dad I first learned about the genetic code and that mysterious 98% junk that consituted the bulk of its mass.  It was that mystery in particular that drove me, despite my analytical bent, to study biology as an undergraduate.
	I was not completely at home surrounded by pre-meds and memorizing machines at U of I, but I found my fix when talks of transposons, (chloroplast and mitochondria synthesis), 300 trillion cell amalgamations, ncRNA which dominates its coding breththren, and the break down of the species concept at the microbial level.  In this time I cemented the unshakable attitude that biology was more complex at its bottom than we'd imagined, that humans represented the tip of some giant computation.
	I left school driven by a naive ambition to prove this point to biologists, that cells were vastly underappreciated caluclating engines.  That dream was worn down roughly by the realities of laboratory life where routine benchwork rewarded dilligent precision and repetition with results that seemed entirely too meager to evidence the complexity of the cell.  Nanoparticles were difficult to sepparrate, mouse tails were slow to genotype, and real time PCR measured only a few RNA species at a single time point after killing untold millions of the cells I hoped to restore.  
	Turned off, as I was, by bench work, my bosses were kind enough to give me the assignement of writing a review paper.  This experience was a greater exercise in patients than the bench work had been.  Poorly organized data from a myriad of micorarray, proteomic, and more involved analysis painted a loose story between hnRNP and radiation that we successfully spun into a paper.  But the challenge of pulling this information together reinforced the difficulty of trying to pull together the impossibly large datasets needed to show the complexity of cellular biology.
	I moved through that time driven by a love of the lab, my coworkers, and the more immediate joys of lab organization, repair, and maintenence.  Still with my goal growing more distant, eventually I decided to escape to adventure and go riding up the coast.
	It was during that time that I discovered a missing focus, discipline, and joy through computer science.  In the libraries where i'd stop to rest, I could read about http protocols, objects, and bits which were far more grounded, and therefore gratifying in their knowability than the murky unknown depths of biology.  Returning home, I determined to continue these studies into along side a renewed effort to apply this line of reasoning to the great unknowns of biology.  Convinced, as it was, that biology had computational potential, I found like minded thinkers tucked into computer science who were doing computation with DNA.  I studied thier work avidly alongside discrete mathematics, compiler theory, and algorithms and marveled at the deep parrallels.
	I came to know that the storage capacity of human DNA was 10^18 times that of all of the magnetic tape that mankind had ever made, that each cell carried within it millions of gated processes running in closed-membrane bound systems which had immense capacity for parrellel computation, that the surface of each cell was coated with millions of individually controlled receptors with a massive capacity for communication.  I also learned, sadly, of the great rift between the theory of such systems and their reality.  This void was made starkly apparent at the DNA15 conference were theoretical mathematitions from Microsoft designed turing comlete languages and DNA compilers while bench workers from ??? struggled to implement control structures because of the complexities of stochastic molecular processes in homogenous solutions.
	It was during this time of study, that a new, more practical, outlet emerged for my ambition, graced as I was by the generosity of my lab to take me back in a role as computer guru.  My work there was on making avaliable online a radiobiology tissue archive from Argonne National Lab.  My work designing the website done, my boss Gayle put me in contact with a Michael Gruenberger who was doing similar work for the ERA's radiobiological archives.  We saw some overlap in our materials and he proposed that we integrate them using web services.  He further suggested that we might write a paper on the process because it was unusual technology in radiation biology.
	While doing background research on that paper, I came across a massive body of work related to web services, the semantic web, registries, and ontologies which got my head spinning about a whole myriad of data sharing issues in biology.  At the same time, reading about nanotechnology improvements and bioMEMS I came to realize that the ability to interact with single cells was improving.  The damages of patch clamp are giving way to subtler methods which allow longer term interactions with cells.  I came to realize that this rapidly emerging world of cellular interfaces would need a lot of work on the process of making data available using the web and standardized ontologies.  More exciting than static archives, these technologies represent an opportunity to allow remote experimentation.
	It was only a month ago now that I read a wonderful book, coders at work, which detailed the lives of 13 giants of the feild of computer programming.  It was interesting to note that nearly all of them had an early experience playing with a computer genereously donated to their high school, or found in the graphing calculator.  It got me to thinking how wonderful it would be to have remote tools to hack into a cell.  How amazing it would be for some curious and obsessive young mind to apply the creative passions of thier youth to immerse themselves in a world of microbiology.  It seems to me that the opportunity to create that possibility is upon us.  I'd like to throw my hat in that ring.
	And so I find myself today looking at your institution.  I have little doubt that my ambitions will not stay fixed, they are more likely to swing in the pendulous way that they have been until they find a home between the passions of dreamy biology and the realities of the world.  But I am encouraged that the oscillations grow smaller, that the dream grows more concrete and the reality grows more fascinating.  The opportunites to do this work are here today and in your labs.  It'd be my honor to help you realize them.