anna_love.txt
	Defining what it means to love Anna

Overview:
	I wanted to define what my love for anna meant and so I wrote a first attempt at defining that concept in December of 2009.  I noted how I knew I loved her, why I loved her, and what promises my love implied.  The most important section for future references is these promises.  I will list them here expecting they will change as I write future love notes.

Promises - ( < 10 )
	I will work to intertwine myself with you.  
	I will be honesty and monogamous.  
	I will try to love the things you love, especially your freinds and family.  
	I promise to improve and be improved by you
	I will stay healthy for you, physiclaly and emotionally.  
	I will treat your love for me as a gift.
	I will comprimise with you.
	

Dec 2009
	*note: the 'real' and finished letter is in Anna's possesion, it contains some style edits and funny pictures.

	My Love for You

		"I'm quickly (eerily quickly, and without much caution or restraint) falling head over heels in love with you. I like your thoughts and your words and your body and how generous you are."  
		Anna Christina Piepmeyer, personal communications

		"So desirous are we for connection, so hungry for communion with another human being, that we forget that for love to endure it must be complemented with an equal measure of restraint"
		Yanki Tauber, "Do We Love Too Much?"

	Anna,

		I've fallen madly and suddenly in love with you.  I suspected I might when we left Krolls with a million plans to fill the future.  Then Anna.txt started bulging and strangers were smiling at me.  It grew harder to suppress the urge to say "I love you" when I lay next to you in sentimental moments sharing breath and gaze.  I can feel myself being wrapped up in your world.  My emotions move with yours.  My sexuality follows yours.  I pick up your habits, wash my face, share your bed, and wake up early to press french coffee.  My heart is addicted to these pleasures and I want to be entwined with you, pressed tight against the confines of your conscience.  I am exposed before you.  This is frightening, but I am not scared.  At your mercy, I feel calm.
		There are a thousand reasons to love you.  You are knowledgable about Heidegar and rock photography.  Children, bums, and adminstrators fall to your smile.  Your life is charmed by fine food and freinds.  You play board games.  You have a beautiful back to kiss.  You make me dinner and coffee.  You are excited by my cellular ambitions.  You send me beautiful sap vom.  You were made for me - better than I could have made for myself.  
		Love is an evolution, so I do not hope to capture it here.  Instead I hope to define the promises my love implies today.  I make these promises on two conditions: 1) That you will remind me if I fail to meet them and 2) that you will help me to modify them as our love grows.
		The future will change our plans, yet through these changes I will work to intertwine myself with you.  My love for you means honesty and monogamy.  It means that I will try to love the things you love, especially your freinds and family.  I promise to improve and be improved by you, to serve your interests.  I will stay healthy for you, physiclaly and emotionally.  I will treat your love for me as a gift.

		
	Love,

	Ben