Anna.txt
	Have fun with Anna.

Related Docs
	anna_love.txt
	anna_gifts.txt
	anna_food.txt
	anna_adventure.txt
	anna_sex.txt
	anna_games.txt
    
relationship summit
    we should set some measurable goals.  For instance we could say lets stay flexible and ask how easy it would be for us to move as a measure of flexibility.  Or we could say lets get fit and set weight goals.
    we should go over the notes of what we've done

To Do:
	Skype robot around chicago to promo open books and perts
		diy telepresence robot http://www.instructables.com/id/Sparky_DIY_Web_Based_Telepresence_Robot/
		$220 rovio - bad review - http://www.amazon.com/WowWee-Rovio-Enabled-Robotic-WebCam/dp/B001CQLGD6/ref=pd_sim_t_1
		$160 - Spykee - Cheap and cool, requires charging station, says it falls over http://www.amazon.com/Erector-Spykee-The-Spy-Robot/dp/B000N6470A
	bday 
		hot dougs 
		sleep in late
		buy some comic books
	Random Gift schedule
	Winter Canooing
	World Changing project

05/11/10
	Went to Iron Man II and RJ Grunts with Nathalie and Josh.  Iron man was really great as sequels go and I was happy to see the return of the Russian Villian and Mikey Rorke.  RJ Grunts I had proposed to Anna the morning before and fate must have conspired because that's where Josh and Nathalie wanted to go.  Its the original lettuce entertain you resteraunt and their temperature priced soup is a delicious must (chicken pot pie in our case).  Thier chicken fingers and bbq sandwhiches were sublime.
	Josh is in the lighting design industry and thinking of starting his own store... a proposition that would cost about $2 mill.  The old store is lucrative but their ownership was squelched by bankruptcy.  Nathalie was a little quiet (read tired) during the meal.  I learned that she's all about reading during everything and pretty fanatic about a few TV shows.  She's a work-a-holic and likes bananagrams.  We should play them sometime.
	Because the last few weeks have had some back and forth irritability between anna and I (with no definative source), I've taken the tact of the last several days to stay light-hearted and jokey.  I've avoided being combatitive and stayed playful.  I think it is a really good habit to pick up.  I should remember to stay playful with many of my relations.  It would make them better.

05/01/10
	Spent our Groupon on tuna from Fox and Obel to make nicouis salads.  For some reason I was ornry most of the night, but then we got cute.

04/28/10
    Went to the Democracy Burlesque show (treehouse for adults) with Anna.  It was a fun time atop Mary's burger joint in their loft space.  The performance was mixed, highlights included Hannah the Hall monitor, wiggly arms coal miner, and a yucelale performance.  It was also touching to hear the companies founder talk about his life as an adjunct professor moving from class to class and focusing on the student's hapiness (because they determine if he gets rehired).  Afterwards I cajoled Anna into walking back to her place.  We stopped at pick-me-up along the way.  I've been giving Anna too much greif about expensive out to eatings.  Instead I just need to start ordering light and ensuring that I have other ways to get my meals.  Better to balance my own desires than to rain on her parade.    

03/26/10 - 03/28/10
This weekend was so fun!  Anna and I read almost all of the Magicians, a kind of grown up harry potter book together.  We went out the guthries on Friday night and I had loads of fun because I was blind due to an eye scratch so I was able to spend nearly the entire evening blind and hangning with Anna.  It gave me a new awareness of her just to focus on what was said instead of all of the visual fodder that normally makes up my mental landscape.  We bought some declious food, made an excellent grueyer, basil, bacon quiche and tomato basil soup.  We went out for Joe's bday to the Californial Clipper and another bar to dance.  It was so much fun to sway and get super drunk with Anna, not that I want to do it all the time.  Joe was cleaned shaved and had a promotion.  I met one of his old high school buddies who was in advertising, but felt she wasn't doing enough for the world.  Madaline told me she might not go to buring man due to finances :(. 

03/22/10
	Anna and I just got back from a weekend trip to Milwaukee.  It was super fun.  We took the Megabus in on Saturday (though mega bus is not so wonderful as it used to be).  Then Roder and Kim met us there to go visit the dead sea scrolls.  The fragments of documents they presented there were amazing.  The coolest ones were the copper scroll used to list 61 treasures that the monks were hiding and the (modern) hand written bible that has recently been commissioned and is absolutely beautiful. 
	Later that night we got some beers, drank at the frat house, smoked some stevo, played Carocosonne at Comet, and drank whiskey.  Roder and I had to check our conversations of c++ and matrix algebra so we could be social.  Roder taught us the conversation starter about which hand do you write with and which you masterbate with.  I also learned that I am one of two dudes (his brother too) who roder can smell when they're around.  On sunday we woke up early enough to eat breakfast at Ma Fischers and then cabbed it back to the bus which we took home.  The rest of the day became fat Sunday.  We ate mac and cheese, made more O-bars and watched the lord of the rings.  So fun.  But today we will be apart.

03/06/10
	Anna and I fought all day and night.  Then we fucked all afternoon.  Good.  Now anna is going to dry her hair and I am giong to buy her doritos and dr pepper with my last dollar.  She will not pay.  She never pays.  I must continue to oblige her masochistic tendencies until the day of reckoning comes.  Afterall that's why there is a long in long con.
	We saw all of Anna's freinds last night for a big get together of Wii Dance Off and Taboo.  It was nice to catch up.  Janell is taking the new job, Danny had to go to work early.  Adrian just got back from a trip to Germany/England.  Cara won top prizes for soup and bread.  Madaline is going to inform me about burning man.  Jill said that Banquet Coors is advertised at Rodeos.  Linda might have Margret as her intern.  Micheal is getting amped for bike season.  Davis is hilarious/drunk.

02/21/10
	I went to rollerderby with Anna and the fam yesterday.  Beforehand we ate at Francescas, proving once again that hand written menus = delicious.  Also we spent a true Sunday together, playing nintendo DS, cuddling, and watching Pete and Pete and Forest Gump.  It was definately the right thing.  I have to remember to keep my Sunday's free so that I can enjoy the beauty of an unplanned day.  
	
02/19/10
	I went to Dinner with Danny and Janelle and Anna at La Madeia.  The meal was excellent, 4 pizzas, grape and goat cheese, egg and ham, lamb and pesto, sausage and onions.  Janelle was riding high over a potential promotion at whole foods, into their corporate infastructure.  Danny was doing well.  They had both gotten back from a trip to Florida and another to Michigan.  Danny was familiar with Krunchies and the Donut quick stop I love so much.

02/16/10
    Lost Tuesday with Karsten, a little bear some ravoli noodles and so on.  So good.  Sounds like Karsten may get a museum curator job in Portland.  He has a second interview. 

02/11/10
    My bday, we walked around, ate at the corner bakery, shopped at fox and obel, bought clothes from old navy, drank at C&N gyros, and went comatose at Texas De Brazil.  Then we starred lovingly into eachothers eyes, got sentimental and weepy, and tried to avoid our own smell as we slept.  Anna woke in the middle of the night from nerves and I comforted her :)

02/08/10
    Anna's Bday!  It was a somewhat low-key, but super awesome affair.  We ate breakfast that I made for her.  I pampered her all day (which was hard for her to take).  I told her stories, bought her a comic book, took her to hot dougs with my sister, watched the X-files home, ate that delicous chocolate, raspberry, and creme brule cake from bittersweet.  We giggled and made love.

02/06/10
	I finally had a chance to hang with Elise, Justin, and Anna.  It went poorly.  Anna did not appreciate Elise and Justin's attitude (no surprise).  Interestingly she noted that they didn't seem to ask any questions which was a bit of an irritation.  So perhaps it won't be good to hang with them.  On the plus side we got stoned and went to Joyee's which was super fun!

02/02/10
	I went to the encyclopedia show with anna.  It was so awesome to see the performances of poetry and comedy centered around the theme of exploration.  I was particularly struck by the Jaque Cousteau performance ( 'Oui, as in you and I' or 'I am not a scientist, rather the impersario of a scientist' ).  It was a great show and i would recommend it to anyone.

01/31/10
	We went to Rollerderby this weekend with Davis, Linda, Nichole, and some others I didn't catch the names of.  It was awesome to watch Beth Amphedimine and Jack Daniels tear up the court.  I tried to encourage Anna to join their ranks and she was receptive to the idea.  Also Miller was there and Lundeen who's wife amazingly enough is a roller-derbiest.  Oh also meeting Nichole was awesome, she's way involved in high-end tutoring and her bro is an education researcher.    I'm gonna have to remember those people when we are shopping for new programs to try.

01/19/10
	Anna and I met after open books and made our way back to my place.  We went out breifly to gather the supplies for poison penut butter cookies and the bbq chicken bacon ranch pizza from Krolls.  Our evening was spent in a mirth of giggles, beer, trailer park boy episodes.  A funny sex session where I played the role of teacher and taught anna about sex.  We took a prison shower where i custom made a shower head for anna (because ours was missing and the stream was a jet of awefulness) anna's hairs were everywhere.  Then we made the poison cookies, they were no good to eat but worse to live near.  Soon each of us were crying from some sort of dry chemical that filled the air, it got worse the closer we got to the oven and we soon put together that something was seriously strange about the cookies.  Soon enough we went to bed, anna's head on my chest, and it was fun.  Fun because we laughed, because it was so awful.

01/12/10
	Mary came into town to visit with Anna and I.  We met on the red line, went over to open books and Mary was super impressed by how awesome the bookstore was.  We then went to the coffee shop next door and drank a few and ate some cookie.  Mary didn't seem to mind Anna and my cutsie behavior which is nice to see.  We then took the train up to Frascas.  Mary had a chance to talk to Anna's co-worker about FIDM and the local fashion scene.  We ate a wooden block of deliciousness and a couple of pizzas.  So good!  Then we were tired, so we sent Mary home and went to bed.

01/10/10
	Saw the imaginarium of doctor parnasus with Drew, James, Michael, and Anna.  The movie was a little weird, but the devil, played by ???, was very good.  Before that we went to Guthries also with adrian and linda.  We played the train game (though we didn't finish) and I learned that matilday comes in a fruity chalice.  

01/08/10
	I took Anna on a date.  Originally I had intended on a larger date, ice skating Anadlous, kingston mines, berries and cream, and pot.  Instead it was reduced to Andalous, sex, and pot.  We ate the berries and cream the next day.  I'm sorry we didn't go ice skating, but at Anna noted it was too long.  The date was great anways, an excellent excuse to get dressed up, go out, and get way turned on by eachother's awesomeness.  

12/28/09
	I just saw Anna again after a xmas trip away.  Its worth noting that we communicated over xmas.  One we sent goodnight, goodmorning, and sexy texts (way fun).  For two, she read me from her comic book (Super Spy) which was totally awesome.  On the other hand, we got in a fight over new years plans and it was mostly boring to talk about our day's events.  Michael tells me that he regularly gets in fights with gabs over the phone and I remember the same from Julie.  So I think (anna does too) that we should consider carefully what we do over the phone.  Maybe our activity has to be structured like reading and dirty talk to make up for a lack of physical contact.  Or maybe we just shouldn't talk too much, but it is something that I will have to spend some time thinking about.
	Seeing Anna again was way awesome.  We were totally lovey dovey and even more so after I gave he the love letter which I have prepared for her.  Adding on to that I just put together a set of calendar reminders that will goad me to revisit the anna_love.txt document once every six months or so to redefine the meaning of my love.
	One thing that I learned seeing anna is not to over-anticipate intamacy.  I got so built up from our sexy text messages that I just wanted to run to the bedroom and fuck her, but then when I got there I didn't feel into it.  Because I pushed the feeling I made it less fun.  In the future I should remember not to plan out sex too much.

12/15/09
	Its impossible to keep up with this doc becaue it changes so fast.  But I will summarize a few things that come to mind.  Anna and I are down with a plan for an enterprise relationship complete with objectives and reviews.  I appreciated the fuck out of her when she was hanging with my freinds and I and accepted my public invitation go to makeout in the corner.  Our sex is moving towards the tantric.  We bought a vibrator (see anna_sex.txt).  I made her food (see anna_food.txt).  I also cajoled her into walking with me on Sunday night.  She was hesitant and I regret pushing her.  As she notes, she only gets one day off a week (Sunday).  Actually, we agreed to make Sunday special.  

12/10/09
    Just to note, Anna is the one that introduced me to travel mugs for coffee, a wonderful advance in ben technology.  Also we agreed last night to try a goodnight policy.  Last she likes it hard.

12/08/09
	I've somehow managed to ignore the process of recording my time with Anna.  Perhaps the volume of experience makes its recording a daunting ambition.  But while the review mood strikes I ought to note that this last weekend with Anna was a thing of beauty.  We went together to the radiation oncology dinner dressed in our finests and she even took my hand for a dance or two (Caroline laughed at us).  Later we went to meet her freinds for Linda's bday.  That evening we got home, stripped, and made love in a way that we haven't been able to before, long slow and tender.  The next day I had to leave her after Kumas corner's deliciousness of greek cheese burgers and a long romp.  I came back the day after and we were impassionately intwined longer than I can count.  We got off to spoken fantasy, I expect she likes the constant drone of my voice.  Also there was tomato basil soup, backrubs, moving boxes all day, watching jaws, eating pecan pie that she procured, and on.

12/03/09
	Running through my to-do list, I can see that I have already accomplished some of these goals and made no note of them.  So without further ado, it is worth noting that I did make bernaise sauce for Anna and it was entirely delicious when served over her salmon and boxed wild rice (the green beans were not, however).  Also on the subject of food we (she) made the most delicious tomato basil soup using fresh roasted plum tomatoes, plently of garlic, and crushed red pepper.  I couldn't get enough of it.  On the matter of the desk, it is fixed by a peice of twine wrapped three times about its base and tightened by the twists of a pen.  If not for the pen it would be a decent looking fix as it is, it is completely functional and it did not take more than an hour to accomplish (good thing I make < 1 desk per hour).  I also made BLTs for her which was a delicious treat.  She showed me how to whip up basil mayonaise which isn't too hard if you have an immersion blender.  Oh yeah, we've played Yatzee, Battleship, and Boggle too.  Fun stuff.

11/23/2009
    Saw Anna last night and it was a wonderfully funny time.  I think she was giddy with stress from work and I was loopy from a day being high, in all that was a very pleasent combination and our night stayed infinitely interesting as we were excited and amused both by eachother and by our games together.  I gave her a solid fing and sent her off to bed, I tried the nasal strips for the first time and only started snoring after putting them on.  She teased me for even using them in the first place, but then in the end she recommended surgery for a deviated septum.  I think she is right, I haven't been able to breathe since I was very young indeed.

11/21/2009
    Anna was sleepy last night.  We got home after a too long train ride, a sweet violin in the el, homeless pickup dude.  I went to sleep with Anna after a little pillow talk on the definition of love.  We woke up this morning something tired but still managed to get around to getting her off.  I feel like Anna is way stressed with the opening of open books and I hope that she won't be so tired once that clears up a bit.

11/20/2009
    Had an evening at Guthries, which is an awesome bar near Anna's full of well tended board games, fine beer, and cool ceiling murals.  We had fun playing boggle, yatzee, and connect 4.  I think I made something of a mistake by bringing up past lovers with Anna, I never really like the weird effects of those conversations which always edge against the sword of jealousy.  I should look hard to keep them to a minimum.  I learned more about Anna's sexual needs.  For one she really likes to talk during sex and she also really likes the feeling that she can't have sex.  These turn ons will be used by me.  She gets very wet for me, but that doesn't necessarily mean that she is turned on and I think she will need extra teasing.  Good things to note.  

11/19/2009
	Talked all day off and on to Anna, she said goodnight to me.  I like that, I think I will have to return the favor to her and give her some good mornings.

11/18/2009
	Anna calls it sap vom, its the best I've ever gotten: 
	
	Baron:
	Seriously-- what is my problem? You'd think that I'd have my fill, after boarding a train (little tired, little disheveled, with a skirt that won't stay down-- a testament to the power of friction, no doubt) and an evening of the best kind of satiation.  Against my better judgment, I can't keep my mouth shut, or my stupid fingers from splaying emotion across keys.
	So, things you already know, but might love reading anyhow-- in these days of novelty, before our expressions become platitudes are our compliments are fewer and further between. I'm quickly (eerily quickly, and without much caution or restraint) falling head over heels in love with you. I like your thoughts and your words and your body and how generous you are.  You mentioned that I'm supportive of you and, for the most part, sans drama.  I'm not sure that these qualities are natural inclinations; rather, it's indicative of how easily you've been able to give me what I need. 
	Thank you for being this wonderful, unforeseen presence in my life.  For the first time (in a long time? ever?) I feel like I might be in for it--and I'm thrilled that you're along for the ride.
	Onward, grad school!
	AP(each)

11/13/2009
	Anna over pizza and then to settlers of Catan.  Laying in bed at night was wonderful.  We got lovey, and promised to focus on being positive with one another and treating  eachother with respect.  She was surprised by how intamite we were with our bodies.  Today she wrote me a wonderful promise "So, this. In the firsts of series of promises we will make to each other, I promise to not forget to appreciate your uniqueness; I will do my best to treat our carved-out space with kid-gloves, with the tenderness appropriate to such a delicate intimacy."

11/11/2009
	A strange romantic day with Anna.  Started with biking (fun) to the coffee shop (not as fun).  Anna was a bit irritiable with my annoyances and told me as much.  I suspect that she was hungry, being as she hadn't eaten for a full day and became much happier after tacos were prepared.  She even told me once she didn't want to be my project anymore, I think I will have to be careful not to build that resentment.  Shortly thereafter we retired and the night was wonderful, deep, romantic, and all that jazz.  The sleep was good too.  In the morning I woke, made coffee and broke her light.  The coffee was better than before, finer ground beans, less half/half, more time to wait after the water whistled.  If I am to do it again, though, I will follow Anna's advice and only let it steep for 4 minutes.  

11/08/2009
	Anna's super nice.  Tonight, like the week before, she's cooking Sunday dinner for my arrival.  She makes me coffee when I'm there in the morning.  I have to make sure to return her generosity with some wonderful things that she will love.  Flowers would be good.  I'll buy some when I get paid next.

10/29/2009
    Just got off the phone with a tipsy Anna who was trying to get me to come over.  I declined on the grounds that she was tipsy, it was late, and she'd be asleep when I got there.  I offerred tomorrow instead.  She was slightly irratiable and got upset about me saying something to the effect of 'lets have the serious talk tomorrow', she was also self conscience about being 'tipsy' or the ideat that she hadn't bothered me enough/too much throughout the week.  In general she was in need of a little emotional back and forth, but being tipsy she had a kind of rude delivery.  I'm not a fan.
    But apart from that, Anna felt talked down to when I've called her 'good girl' and one other time on the phone.  I need to improve my ways on such things.  Also she used the word bothering for her interactions with me, but I think the word should be amusing, I will use it henceforth.

10/27/2009
	Spent the whole weekend together, stim to stern.  Starting with afternoon delights and ending with evenings and The Open.  I learned especially lot about Anna during Carston's art show, breakfast, hearing her journal entries, and reading The Open.  Carston's art show was a chance to see Anna as a social agent with her freinds, making plans, drawing together people on topics of mutual interest, and being the life of the party.  I think that Anna fits very naturally in the role of social constructer, I told her as much.  It's something that she may like to persue in anything she does.  Breakfast was beautiful, outside with eggs, infused creame, and hand pressed coffee.  Anna told me her thoughts on monogamy (its hard) and family.  She's a bit turned off by the idea of family, certainly by pregnancy, I'll have to work at this over time to show her the beauty of children and of the future.
	She read to me from her journal, sexy thoughts of the night on Northwestern's roof.  She said at one point that I seemed to make everything a project and that she'd like it if I made her a project.  I will make her a project, I hope she returns the favor.  Reading The Open with her was a treat, especially when she had the idea to jump around to chapters that she thought i'd like.  She went to pages of Uexill and his concept of the Umwelt, which I have a particular love for, though I'm opposed to his idea that organisms do not understand one-another's-umwelt, I think this point is overstated.  I also really liked the talk of Linneaus's refusal to classify minds except with the self-referential phrase "know thyself" on the grounds that humans aren't really all that physiologically different than any other species (seems like a bold conclusion, but Linneaus would have a good feel for it).  Anyways, in regards to Anna, this tells me she's way into these people, Hegel, Heideger, and so on, and that she's good in seeing through to the sources that I would find amazing.  That's a valuable thing.

10/22/2009
	Sexy night atop the roof of NU, torn stockings, wind, 17 stories, pressed against walls, fun.  I only found it hard to part company w/o going home with her, so I think policy has to be to plan for a whole night if I'm staying with Anna.  I also learned her full name Anna Christina Piepermeyer.  

10/19/2009
	I went to volunteer with Anna, and then when here mom wasn't around that turned into an all night hang out complete with the Exorcist which was mostly unwatched.  I enjoyed the company of Anna, though lube might be in order next time (the condom thing didn't go so well).  Breakfast was good at the quick place.  Allthough the whole next day I felt a little queezy, perhaps beer and sleep deprivation.

11:42 PM 10/13/2009
	I went to get Tea with Anna today at a little place on the south side of Archer in china town.  Tea was nice and I had fun palling around with her including a fanciful discussion of becoming a facebook villian, Baron Ben, and talks of Dotskevsky.  She mentioned Valoes and a book on the old man culture there.  I learned she rapid fires through passions which planted a seed of insecurity that I must be sure to weed, though she did a pretty good job of that when she called me the bees knees.  We kissed goodbye.  If I were to do it again, I would have gone straight to china town or cleaned my place so I could invite her up.  But to be honest I wouldn't change much.
	