Questions:
	What is the bible being used for historically?  Moral advice, political justification, taxing/law policy?  Do most people read it, or is it restricted to the priestly class?  Do other societies maintain these types of documents for similar reasons?
	Why has the satan v God model proven more successful than the true monotheism of the bible?  Do people need an outlet to blame for negative human behavior?  Is this a residual from the pagan tradition that Christian monotheism subsumed?


Observations:
	The initial acceptance of monotheism is a great act of skeptisism, stripping the holy and whimisical nature from a number of physical objects.  In this way it the formation of monotheism shares a heritage with other de-divination movements like humanism and the enlightenment.
Both the evolutionary school and the radical school established by Yehzqel have important elements that might be borrowed when forming a world view of religion.  Like the movements of techtonic plates the shift from polytheist to monotheist traditions is likely to be composed of a series of gradual changes occasionally puncutated by large and violent revolutions.




Notes:
	The only trouble with Christine Hayes's introduction to the old testament (http://www.academicearth.org/courses/introduction-to-the-old-testament-hebrew-bible) hosted by academic earth is that it is limited to only her first three lectures.  Christines's lucid and open-minded presentation of biblical material highlights the bible as a human invention that details complicated characters from multitudinous and sometimes opposing motives.
	In the first lecture (http://www.academicearth.org/lectures/bible-parts-of-the-whole) Christine emphasizes that the character of the bible are complex and not always meant to be examplars of human behavior.  The god presented in the old testament is one that presides and derives power from history rather than nature.  Unlike many other gods of the period he has a moral interest in the behavior of his chosen people.  The sources of the bible are notably diverse, drawn from different times, places, and people and notably the bible never claims to be from a single source.  Because of this, no single stance should be used to analyze the bible, lest it gloss over the inherent complexity of the document.  Finally, Christine lays some necessary restrictions on the future discussions of her course, she emphasizes the need to keep arguments of faith outside of this acacdemic discourse and the restriction of the class material to the 24 books of the Tanakh or Jewish bible that are almost univesal to modern religions that use use the bible as thier holy book.
	In the second lecture of her series (http://www.academicearth.org/lectures/biblical-religion), Christine approaches the question of how monotheism fits in with the general world veiw of religion.  To preface the argument she emphasizes that the monotheists that drew together the bible in the 4th to 7th centuries BCE had markedly different views than the tradition they borrowed to compose the first consolidations of the bible.  These ancestors were probably much closer to polytheists than the cabal of monotheists who drew together the five books of the Torah.  Historically, many have approached monotheism as a natural and unavoidable successor to primitive polytheistic veiws.  This pejorative view is opposed by Yehzqel Kaufman's revolutionary argument that monotheism is not a natural progression from polytheism, but a radical break.  Chrisine devotes most of this lecture to Kaufman's theory which details the differences between the gods of polytheism and monotheism.  
	Kaufman shows that while pagan gods are born, die, and form families like humans, the monotheistic god is eternal and not of the world in a physical sense.  Where pagan gods find their power from the manipulation of a metadivine power held in physical objects like blood, water, the sun, and so on the monotheistic god is the source of ultimate power and unlike his pagan counterparts controls a realm beyond the access of human intervetion.  This means, in essense, that where pagan religions have a close resemblence and even cross over between gods and men there is no cross over possible in the monotheist tradition which is especially exemplified by the lack of an afterlife in the old testament tradition.  Where deamons are often the source of evil human behavior in polytheist traditions, monotheist traditions recognize no evil derived from God and so their evil is strictly human derived.  While the monotheistic approach may look like the redefintions of the pagan metadivine, an important difference emerges as this metadevine god is a moral agent unlike the physical objects of polytheism.
	Christine's third lecture(http://www.academicearth.org/lectures/genesis-12-50) might be the most intersting as it focuses on the authorship of the bible.  She notes that Richar Simone was the first to propose that Moses might not be the only author of bible.  Others expanded on this observation by identifying two authors in the Torah, one that calls God Yahweh and the other which refers to God as Elohim.  Wellhausen becomes the father of this feild of study with his contriversial formilization of the documentary hypothsis which identifies 4 source in the pentateuch (first five books) of the bible.

	The J source calls God Yaweh and seems to have been written in the 10th century to justify land acquisition by kings in the southern kingdom
	The E source calls God Elohim and presents a more abstract god that fills in gaps in J
	The D source	Is mostly Deuterotmy which details 3 of Moses speaches.  These speaches focus on the concerns of egrarian life, insists on one temple, and was probably used by Josiah in 622 BCE to justify his reforms.  Despite this fact, it is thought that the D source was written earlier because it favors northern Isreal which fell in the 7th century BCE.	
	The P source justifies the naming discrepiancy between E and J and is mostly found in Leviticus and Numbers.  It includes mostly preistly concerns like sacrificial responsibilites, holidays, purity codes, and so on.  It also includes the creation story in Genesis, and was probably written by the priests that combined the three other sources during the babalonian exile in 586 bce.
	
	The methods used to sepperate authorship in the bible include word choice and repetition.  While their is general agreement that 4 original sources went into the pentateuch, the question of who wrote what source is open to debate.  Some approaches do not make appropriations for synonym use or repetition and so make the pentateuch look like a hodgepodge of differently sources words.  Another school of thought holds that the 4 sources of the bible are themselves collected works.  The analsis known as form critisism attempts to determine the subauthors of the various sources.  The Copenhegen school regect the four author supposition altogether, favoring a veiw that considers the bible the written form of a series of oral traditions that accrued more detail over time.
	Finally, Christine hints at the topic of the fourth lecture, the historicity of the bible.  She points out that number use, especially in chronololgy, is very questionable in the bible as it often offers pefect numbers, multiples of 5 or 7 and strange repeitions.  The Albright school deals with these issues.  But unfortunately, we will have to wait for that lecture until Yale opens up its remaining lectures.
