communication_biology.txt
	Develop the fastest, cheapest, and most information rich way to communicate with cells.

	Cellular biology has memory and processing power far in excess of either human or computer systems (see computational_biology.txt).  From this fact, we might suppose cells, like humans and computer systems, contain self models that can be accessed and manipulated.  In an effort to access these self models the author proposes the development of rapid communication technologies that interface with naturally occuring cell signaling channels and are optimized for low data aquisition costs.  From the collected data we might hope to employ machine learning algorithms to find recurrent patterns in call/response and correlations with external measures like turmonogenicity and cell connectivity.


Time Sheet:
	1.5 hours  03 July 2009
	3.0 hours  10 July 2009
	3.5 hours  18 July 2009
	5.0 hours  24 July 2009		c. elegans, rnai

To Do:
	Find technique
	Find Lab


Techniques:
	Patch clamps		Cheap, but kills cells after a few hours
	Sequencing		Yet to be realized, information flow may be low
	Microscope 		One way
	Magenetic feild		??
	Electrical feild	??
	Stiffness		??
	Temperature		??
	Neurotransmitters	??
	Lentivirus vectors	??
	Micromanipulation	??
	Microinjection		??
	Optical trapping	??
	Biosensors		??


Models:
	C. Elegans		Good because their development and cell structure is known
	plants			??
	animals			??
	virus			??



Cell Signaling
	Juxtacrine		gap junctions, plasmodesmata, and notch (see juxtracrine.txt)

	Endocrine (via blood)
	Paracrine (like neurons)
		growth factors, clotting factors, Somatostatin, histamine, testosterone, 
	DNA/RNA



Endocrine Signaling:
	This I will ignore for now, because it is inherently slower and more general than juxtacrine signalling, so there may be a place for this as you start dealing with larger bodies of cells, but at a small level this is not where we want to begin... then again we can get these levels from the blood, so it will be very useful as we look for clinical applicability.


Neurotransmitters:
	Held in presynaptic vessicles, released upon electric stimulation and at baseline levels.  There are 10 small molecule neurotransmitters and a growing list of 50 small peptides along side NO and CO gasses.  90% of neurotransmitter is glutamate and 90% of the remainder is GABA, though psychotropic drugs often affect the rarer species.  ?how to measure, other cells?

DNA/RNA
	Nanopore 		company promising pore based single molecule sequencing.
	Viral Diversity		5000 genotypes in 1000 L of water and 1 Million in a kg of sediment http://tinyurl.com/ldoqwa
	virus transfers         photosynthetic, metabolic, and immunity genes http://tinyurl.com/ldoqwa
	Rate of Gene transfer   Unknown but very high, perhaps 10^24 per year http://tinyurl.com/ldoqwa
	General Transduction 	GTA molecules which contain small amounts of DNA 4kb, and unlike phage only carry host DNA!
	Gene transfer		Ehv virus carries sphingolipid syntheis genes in I. huxley http://tinyurl.com/nwofxw
	


Biophotons
	This fringe feild suggests that cells might communicate through light.  The following article provides some review http://tinyurl.com/nsmdqe.



People
	Paul Edwards		Cellucidate co-founder who believes signaling is the medicine for computational cells
	Walter Fontana		Cellucidate co-founder who believes signaling is the medicine for computational cells
	Dereck Stein		Proponent of Nanopore molecular seqeuncing




Elitricorticography - sticking electrodes into the brain

Aluminum oxide nanopores may provide single channel sequencing says Rashid Bashar of UofI fame as published in  Advanced Materials 2009.

In the modern world some of the most important work being done involves mapping and applying search algorithms to meaningful graphs in the world.  The most notable of these efforts have been the graphs produced by google of the internet and facebook of the network of friends.  The creation of each of these maps has relied upon the fact that nodes involved are willing and capable of defining their own connections to the central service.  This ability to communicate connectivity is of paramount importance in the study of biology.  If cells are capable of defining their communication paths to researchers then we will have a powerful method of researching multi-cellular entities.


metabolomics - a good feild to start in
chuck says digital signal processing will soon take over patch clamp leading to better/faster/ more machine learning machines


Receptors
	A protein that binds ligands which maybe peptides, hormones, drugs or toxins that function as promoters or antagonists.  Receptor mechanisms are typically explored through x-ray crystalography.  These receptors may be on the cell surface such as Metabotropic which cause a signal cascade and  Ionotropic receptors which open ion channels.  Peripheral membrane proteins are rare compared to transmembrane receptors.  The major families of transmembrane proteins include G-coupled proteins (or 7TM proteins), Receptor Tyrosine Kinases, Guanylyl cyclase receptors, and Ionotropic receptors which allow the passing of ions directly.  The full set of membrane receptors noted at (http://www.receptome.org) and through the pharmocology group at iuphar (http://www.iuphar-db.org/index.jsp).  The immune system has a special class of receptors which deserves its own special attention.  The MeSH search term for receptors is "cell + surface + receptors".

Immune Receptors
	A distinct class of cell receptors used by the immune system (what % of body?). Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are receptors of the inate immune system which recognize pattern associated molecular pattersns (PAMPs) that may be carbohydrates (like lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or mannose), nucleic acids, peptides, and others.  PRRs fall into two general categories, Signaling PRRs, like Toll like Receptors (TLRs), and Endocytic PRRs which bind to foreign bodies and promote engulfment and destruction.  Toll-Like Receptors (TLR's), discovered in the 1990's, mediate cytokine production and attract immune cells following exposure to bacteria/funally specific molecules like dsRNA and unmenthelated DNA stretches.  Other Immune receptors include Killer Receptors (KARs and KIRs) used by killer cells to recognize host cells, Fc Receptors which use antobodies to stimulate phagocytosis, complement receports that use complementary proteins to identify microbes and immune complexes, B cell receptors which promote differentiation and proliferation, and T-cell receptors which activate the killers.  


Various Signalling Pathways
	A term seeded in the late 1970's grown up through the 80's and 90's, signal transduction pathways, describe reaction chains that proceed from ligand binding on the membrane to internal cell changes.  These pathways have periods ranging from minutes (as is the case with ion channel mediation) to days (as can happen with gene expression). Sonic the hedgehog is the most important member of the hedgehog group of proteins which acts in development (and cancer) to create signal graidients which binds to 7m membrane protein, patch-1 (PTCH-1) and releases the inhibition on Smoothened (SMO) resulting in a signalling cascade that reaches the nucleus.  The MAPK/ERK pathway is initiated by growth factors (GFs) and uses G-protiein uncoupling to affect cellular gene production.  The TGF-Beta signaling cascade binds ligands from the TGF-beta ligand super family to Type I receptor which phosphorylates type II that then phosphorylates regulated R-SMADs which complex with coSMADs that work together as transcription factors in the nucleus.  The JAK-STAT pathway is induced by cytokines and growth factors which causes the Janus Kinase (JAK) to activate the Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (STATs) which accumulate in the nucleus and activate transcription patways.  The cAMP pathway responds to G-protein releases by activiting adenyl cyclase which catylizes the conversion of ATP to cyclic AMP (cAMP) which modulates some ion channels and activates PKA resulting in transcript regulations.  Integrins found across animals bind other cells, the extracellular matrix, and even viruses and are unique in their ability to both respond to and transduce signals.

Lipid Siganaling
	Lipid Signaling is differnt from other forms in that lipids can freely pass through membranes and do not dissolve in solution, as such lipid signalling molecules are generally bound to carrier proteins and synthesized near the site of thier action.  Sphingolipids have been implicated in a variety of signalling roles with poorly understood pathways.  Lipids also play a role in G-coupled signal transduction pathways.  Phosphatydilinosol biphosphate (PlP2) promotes the production of secondary messengers in its G-coupled transduction pathways.  A number of lipids are known to bind g-coupled receptors including Lysophosphatidic (LPA), Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) which is upregulated during inflammation and deadly after K/O or 5 fold over expression, Platlet Activating Factor (PAF), endocannabanoids, Prostaglandins, and Retonic Acid derivatives that function in the visual system.


Biosemiotics
	Semiotics is the study of sign systems in human culture while biosemiotics is the extension of this effort into the biological world.  The rhetoric of this feils is exactly the type of thing that I am trying to study, but I fear these people may be a bit fringe.


Signaling Molecule Research Tools
	A number of utilities have been composed to help researchers mine the current knowledge of signaling molecules. Nature's pathway interaction database (http://pid.nci.nih.gov/) supplies a review article from senior scientists on receptors binding molecules, transcription factors, and other signaling molecules including information on their binding partners, discovery, and known states.  


Systems Biology
	Wholesale RNAi K/O's pertubations 
	The institute for Systems Biology is a 170 member group in Seattle focused integrating across disciplines to develop statistical models for the effects of large scale perturbances on gene regulatory networks.


WTEC's assesment of SYstems Biology in the US as of 2005 (good background) http://www.wtec.org/sysbio/report/SystemsBiology.pdf






Online courses:
	Microfluidic flow, sorting, and optical detection (no lectures or solutions) http://tinyurl.com/ppwqz6
	Feilds, forces, and flows in biological systems (no lectures or solutions)  http://tinyurl.com/ple45v
	Electrical flow and potential in cells (no lectures or solutions) http://tinyurl.com/qm6c4u
		Which molecules are transported across membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport?


print a copy of this http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Signal_transduction_pathways.png
Check Protein Importance by K/O deadlyness and expression rate
run through the signaling news and technology assesments

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_assessment
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ETC_Group
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/stoa/default_en.htm


biophysics
transport
bioinformatics



bioinformatics
	important datasets: 	nucleic acids, protiens, x-ray crystalography, protein nmr
	important problems: 	transcriptome to proteome to cacerousness to 
				protein sequence to protein structure

RNAi
	Discovered in C elegans in 1998 by ?? 

C elegans are transparent, have a 3-day lifecycle, and well characterized development.  While other animals have a strong anti-viral response to RNAi, C elegans need only to have 150 bp or more of dsRNA inserted into them.  RNAi delivery in c elegans is accomplished by switching the e coli they eat with another strain that expresses the dsRNA of interest http://www.bioscirep.org/bsr/025/0299/0250299.pdf!

C elegans development is characterized to the cell (Hope, 1999)Hope, I. A. (1999) Background on Caenorhabditis elegans. In: C. elegans. A pratical approach (I. A. Hope,
ed.), Oxford University Press, Oxford.

RNAi perturbances are what I need to work with right now... maybe I could get cells to stop or start dividing... that seems rather useful, doesn't it?  Maybe I could get them to move from one point to another

make sure that RNAi does not have off target affects - would require RNAi and microRNA along with some good theory

Seems to take 9 days for feeding c. elegans from a library and analyzing through light microscopy.  Time is taken in the growth of c. elegans from a library and in the selection of RNAi KO strains http://www.natureprotocols.com/2008/02/12/rnai_vector_feeding_protocol_f.php



RNAi is particularly effective for knockdown experiments in polyplodial plants which are difficult to manipulate by traditional KO means. http://www.plantphysiol.org/cgi/content/abstract/142/1/6

RNAi in hertiable in c. elegans

Note, perhaps by combining these processes with mass spec we can begin an era of biological chemistry where we order custom molecules directly from biology itself fitting whatever spectrophotometric properties we desire.

C elegans will have the added benefit of cell-to-cell contact requiring gap junctions and the like


I need to look at the application of patch clamp in c elegans 



LSDCAS	The large scale digital cell analysis system
	A machine at the university of iowa dedicated to multi-day automated microscopy.  Built in 2007? it can generate 50 gigs of data/week as it scans across thousands (millions?) of cells.  The machine has two microscope system, one of which routinely scans a T-25 and the other of which scans a 96-well plate that includes CO2 and humidity control.  The machine runs an autofocus algorithm to ensure quality images.  The university of Iowa is not unique in having an automated microscope, nikon has a very nice article detailing the technical side of automated microscopy and commercial solutions avaliable.  http://www.microscopyu.com/articles/livecellimaging/automaticmicroscope.html


Metagenomes Availability
	EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration is a collaboration between genbank, ddbj, and embl to keep all of these sequence databases synchronized.  IGM/m maintains a database focused on metagenomes specifically http://img.jgi.doe.gov/cgi-bin/m/main.cgi.  


September 14-18, 2009 ($250) - I really need to find a way to go to this
   Microbial Genomics & Metagenomics Workshop 

If a something where hooked up to the signaling pathways of a cell and also given a microscopic veiw of what the cell was doing, could that something learn to direct the motion/gene production or the like of the cell?  

Maybe the problem that I really want to deal with has to do with providing high speed datalinks between computers, people, and the biological organisms around them.  We have the network infastructure to make gaia communicate better, it is our obligation to make this happen.  But to make it so we will have to take a selfish course of development.  The most important goal from our perspective is linking our computing machines (which are linked to us) to biology in order to facillitate our interaction with it.  This is important at a mass scale, but mass animals might be too dumb to be useful.  We may need to lean down into the world of microbes in order to get our shit done.


One problem that we might solve is how the cell can communicate to us spatial or temporal information about the various moleclues within it.  This data could be nicely correlated with florescent data.  It would involve training and help to solve an important biological problem, how to identify the locality of difficult to tag molecules after their introduction to a cell.  Moreover, if the cells are capable of transmitting an objects locality, we might be able to convince them to keep it in one place or another.  This would have great utility to researchers.  


An important question that venters group will be getting at is whether genes fold differently in various different cellular environments.  Actually this question can be asked more generally if we ask what is the structural output of a variety of species for a particular gene sequence.  If all of the species produce the same protein structural output we might assume that this output can be derived from its underlying sequence.  If they produce different outputs then we have to consider the background as a powerful contributer to the final protein.  A simple answer to this question can be supposed when we consider alternative splicing.  Obviously the final state of the protein output cannot be completely determined from sequence if alternative splicing exists.  The question is how common is alternative splicing?  Moreover can we predict all the possible alternative splices, which is actually the most important question.  The broader question of why the cell favors one splice over another may not be contained within the genes, but instead be a factor of the cellular environment.  The even broader question of what a protein's function is based on sequence is rather absurd considering that our data on functionality is so limited.  I would have to assume that a guess and check strategy is a good approach to the production of functional proteins at a biolgical level.  More specifically, I have to suppose that some degree of guess and check is necessary to solve the problem, while a fair amount of prediction is possible as well.  To really solve the problem we need to tighten the turnaround time between predicting a novel protein's functionality and testing it.  W/O this turn around it becomes exceedingly difficult to test our models.  Another score for venter I suppose.



I think I would like an option when I choose to open a new tab to write out a sentence of text detailing what I hope to veiw from that source so that when I get around to it I can answer the question that I was getting at.  Probably best to make this a tag on a bookmarking utility I can make the answer to the question another tag...

mechanosensors:
	Cells generate their adhesion forces in the nanonewton range and these forces can be measured by a variety of techniques.  
	PDMS aka polydimethylsiloxane plating, developed in the 1980s, offers a qualitative visualization of these forces due to deformation of the matrix  (Harris 1984).  More quantitatively, cells can be plated on a polyacrylamide matrix with indicator beads, the movement of which can be used to measure the tension forces (Lee, Leonard, Oliver, Ishihara and Jacobson 1994).  Still other methods employ Cantalivers to directly measure forces but limited by the use of a single canteliver can only measure one force at a time (Galbraith and Sheetz 1997).  mPAD (microfabricated post array detectors) involve an array of posts and optical analysis of deflection that can be combined with spring constants to measure the forces applied at the points of contact (extremely useful).  The authors of this link claim to have developed a system that provides data within reasonable computational bounds http://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/picrender.fcgi?artid=1480360&blobtype=pdf.  Fabricating these posts seems to be a relatively cheap process and the microscope involved was a Nikon Eclipse TE2000-E microscope in a LIVECELL chamber.  Definately the most expensive parts of this process are the microscope and expertise involved.  However, I would say that a setup could be made for Cell Culture ($100) + Microscope Time ($1000) + Fabrication ($1000) and Expertise ($1000) for under $5000 a run for a 2 day run (turn your bs factor on high).  



Biomodels (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/) - is the currated repository of biological models relevant 


chemical organization theory - wtf is that
Systems Biology Markup Language - wtf is that


I should make a short list of memoriziables from the above