Dreamlog
	to remember dreams

12/Sep/2008 15:40
	Now keeping my dreamlog in a notebook.

10/Sep/2008 9:50
	Early on had a sex dream about E where D and I were in the room. I was rubbing myself and soon enough D was too. while E was spreading her legs wide flirtatously she had a large low hanging clit.

8/Sep/2008 9:20
	Was in an ultimate game of tag biking where our multiperson team never took off the ground becuase my front tire was loose.  While looking for replacement parts it was only a matter of time before people ganged up and tagged me in the bar.  I tried to tag the guy who tagged me before he did, but it was too difficult.  

27/Aug/2008 11:12
	I remember having to jump betwen two rooves which wasn't so far a distance, but absolutely terrifying due to the drop.  I also remember hanging with Dave for parts of it.  At some point he asked me if I would refuse to lie even for experimental purposes... an interesting question indeed.

16/Aug/2008 10:44
	Its really only scattered bits, but I kept reviewing yesterday in a disturbed sleep that was more memorable because it was jarred by massive amounts of caffine.

15/Aug/2008 10:09
	Dreamed of a haunted trailer that our family got.  It was frightening.  Dad was still there and looking to get rid of the thing, we sold it to an older couple on the cheap.  I was there for the pre-sales dinner where we were trying to keep things hush.  It was akward knowing what to say when this guy kept extolling what a good deal he was getting for $2000...
	The dream shifted at some point and I saw a mouse on the back of a pickup truck, I was still scarred by the haunted trailer.  Someone kept holding the mouse by the tail and I thought that if he were to bite me I might get diseased, so i hid from view beneath some cloth that I had with me.

9/Aug/2008 13:02 - 
	After waking and going back to sleep again I had a couple of dreams one was a programming dream the other was a sex dream.  The programming dream was just a reflection of the work I was doing, while the sex dream was more vivid.  Essentially I was being invited by some girl to crawl in her only to realize that we needed a condom and to leave the room, because we were laying in my mom's room and Micheal had just walked in.  By the time we made it across the hall to an appropraite room the moment had passed and we went on to new things.

4/Aug/2008 10:23 - 
	The first dream was a bit involved.  I was in a mansion, ravenously drinking coffee and dismayed my reflection covered in outrageously bulbous pimples.  There were a couple of hot chicks around and it came accross that they would have to change outfits for bed and that they were wearing fishnet underwear.  I really wanted to see this, and followed one of the girls around to catch her changing, but to no avail.

	Soon it was time for bed, so Roder and I found that thier was a second house just out front.  We asked permission and then went to sleep on the couches in this bungalow.  Just as we were nearing sleep we recieved a call from Jackie-O who was the former resident of this house.  She was asking to be let in and seemed a bit suspect.  Still, I said yes, of course, and went on press the buzzer.  Before we know it Jackie-O is in the house and digging through one of the drawers.  She came looking for old seeds that she had stored in film canisters.  She said she liked to plant seeds.

	I remembered reading that Jackie was a big fan of planting seeds by hand and inquired about it.  She affirmed my ancedote.  Later when she checked her phone she exclaimed 44 words!  I admitted that I was quite the talker and she said that I must be.  Then we hugged and parted ways.  Only later did I catch some stock 60's footage in my mind of Jackie putting on some fancy dress having her breast slip and playfully hoising it for the camera before pulling it under the dress again.

	The second dream I had last night was just a snippet related to being part of a newspaper publishing group with the Boyz.  Dave was showing off a Title he was proud of some to the effect of KJ limited calls for Killer Car.  I said I liked the title because of its alliteration.  Eric said the title was misleading.  I said that as a user I wouldn't care if the title was misleading I would lookup who the hell KJ limited was and be happy with the new knowledge.  Eric said that was true.  But Dave stuck to the fact that it was misleading and went off to rework it.

