elise.txt
	My knowings with Elise


To Do
	What motivate Elise?  How can I motivate her to liberate her data?

12/02/09
	Actually did go all the way through citizen Kane and had a pleasent night getting stoned and talking.  Elise has a job she is applying for that Achi set her up with.  We spent a little time writing the second paragraph of the essay which is essentially what I plan to do for you.  I found that Elise had a perfect understanding of the subject, but just needed a little goading to find the right frame to put things in.  I think its cool that she has an exciting job prospect and hopeful because Achy sent it her way.  I am worried, however, that it is usually dangerous to put all of the eggs in one basket.  It certainly caused Roder a fair deal of continual greif while he was here.  In other news she's been giving to advice to a freind of the family, a girl of 14 who has bipolar disorder.  I am really happy to hear that both for the sake of the girl and for Elise.  I hope that they will establish a relation of mutually beneficial co-dependence in their struggle to master the mind.
	

11/13/09
	It was a little frustrating making plans between Q, Elise, and I today.  Basically, Elise chatted and asked what I was up to.  I told her to contact Q.  Q tried unsuccessfully to evade her company with us and in the end cancles, so now I am hanging with E.  I need to figure out better ways to manage such things.
	More drama last night centered around not seeing elkise and then the advice I gave her as to overcomming GRE fear of failure (humility).  She wrote another PS can't-stand-you email, I asked what I needed to do to get rid of the drama.  She agreed to back-off if I stopped lecruring her (what I would call advice).  So its agreed.  I suspect I will need to invoke this agreement in the future.  

2:24 PM 10/19/2009
	Watched 1/2 of Citizen Kane.  Amazing.  I think Elise was happy for me that I'm seeing Anna, nice to know that.  Drinking and smoking maybe a bit too much, however.  Though it was fun to play with the heart rate monitor.

