kellog_program_books.txt
	Notes on the books required and recommended by cool courses at the Kellog Program at Northwestern


Kellog Program Books

intro		Negotiation Theory and Research
intro		Introduction to Financial Accounting  w/solution manual
intro 		Supply Chain management: Strategy, Planning and Operation
intro		Practical Management Science - bought
intro		Guide to Managerial Communication
intro		Marketing Management

advanced	Graphics and Visual Communication for Managers
advanced	The Entrepreneurs Guide to Business Law
advanced	Managerial Statistics: A Case-Based Approach  
advanced	Integrity Selling For The 21st Century: How to Sell The Way People Want To Buy

maybe		Making the Team: A Guide for Managers
maybe		Statistics for Business and Economics
maybe		The Changing Dynamics of Urban America 
maybe		The Rise of the Creative Class
maybe		Urban Economics and Real Estate Markets
maybe		Spreadsheet Modeling and Applications
maybe		Technology Ventures
maybe		Innovative Management: A Conversation with Gary Hamel and Lowell Bryan

cool		"Why Should My Conscience Bother Me?"
cool		Why Ordinary People Torture Enemy Prisoners




maybe		Authentic Leadership
maybe		Good To Great
maybe		The Mind and Heart of the Negotiator
maybe		A Framework for Marketing Management

advanced	Economics of Strategy

cool		A Note on Franchising: Gompers, Paul A. HBS 9-297-108
maybe		Quasi-Franchisees, Chains That Look Like Franchises, But Aren’t: Intl. Society of Franchising
maybe		The Body Shop (case study) Ivey School of Business
maybe		Wall Street Journal, Sept. 18, 2008: franchise classified ads
intro		Microeconomics Besanko, David and Braeutigam, Ron
Strategic management in the media: theory to practice
Global Competitive Strategy
Principles of Corporate Finance
Excel Modeling in Corporate Finance
Excel Modeling in Investments
Heard on The Street: Quantitative
Principles of Corporate Finance 	
The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Money and Investing
Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies
Principles of Corporate Finance
The Entrepreneur’s Guide to Finance and Business: Wealth Creation Techniques for Growing a Business
Investments Bodie, Kane and Marcus
Derivatives Markets Robert Mcdonald
International Financial Management  Eun and Resnick


Case One: Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department, New York.
Jeffrey M. STAMBOVSKY, Plaintiff-Appellant, v. Helen V. ACKLEY and Ellis Realty, Defendants-Respondents. July 18, 1991.
Case Two:  United States District Court,M.D. Georgia,Valdosta Division.  OFFICEMAX, INC. Plaintiff, v. L. SAPP, d/b/a G.S. Properties, Defendant. No. 7:99-cv-27 (WDO). Feb. 13, 2001.
