kristen_clifford.txt
	Working with our new administrative assitant

Related Docs
	bens_job.txt
    wololab_lecture_uploads.txt
    
    
01/25/2010
    Tanja asked me to help tanja set up a calendar and email forwarding which we did.  I also sent off a list of items to her that tanja wants back and I will have to be sure and followup that it was done.

11/16/2009
    Dealing with the computer installation which is a rather frustrating experience.  Through a little searching I seem to have stumbled upon workarounds for the missing installation cds, namely a folder on the computer named t://i386 which contains a copy of the original windows installation and a set of drivers from Dell which contain the boot information.  We will see if these utilities are effective
    In working with Christen I tried to press her on the matter of Ted's paper, but she left w/o a full answer.  I think maybe I should have eased into that conversation more casually after asking how her weekend was and palling around with her a bit.  I think that is a good general lesson too.

11/10/2009
    Worked with Kristen again today and learned about her time with Paul and Tiffany.  Notably, she has learned to process orders which is awesome, and I'm sure that the lab will want to dump all sorts of orders down on her ( I had to resist the urge myself ).  She also got an inside peak into the planning for the Christmas party which is pretty cool.  I took her down to go back over the scanning and this time we got things worked out w/o too much trouble.  It reminds me of my first few months at lab where I was shaky at things, because I had so much rolling through my head all of the time.  If that is any indication, then it is good with Kristen to take thing slow and explain everything in its menutia and over time she will develop a really incrediable knowledge of how the lab operates.  The only thing I might have done is encourage her to write out the instructions for scanning.  This may have encouraged her to be more thorough in learning it and would have allowed future parties to follow in her footsteps more easily (assuming the protocol remains up to date).  Last I told her that the office was hers and she could do with it as she wills.  I think that made her happy.
    
11/09/2009
    Met Kristen for the first time today and had a nice introductory talk with her and some overveiw with Tanja.  The story on Kristen is that she graduated from University of Ohio in 2005 and spent some time plopping between temp jobs before her sister recruited her to come to Chi town in Jan 2009.  She worked for a few months as a temp at HR in evanston and kept applying for jobs.  One way or another she found her way to our lab and now we get to enjoy her company.  She's green, but smart (good at boggle and took college classes in high school).  If we can integrate her into wololab she will be a valuable member.  On a personal level, she's down to earth if a little nervous.  She has diabetes and talked about it freely.  Also she likes to dedicate her time at the local children's Museum and that seems pretty awesome.  Anyways, she's a bit overwhelmed right now which is only natural.  I will do my best to keep things nice easy and smooth for her.
    
    
	
	
	
	
	