Grandmother,

Its been too long since I written.  Fall finds me applying for grad school, a prospect I've been thinking about since I stayed with you.  I'm still working at the Woloschak Lab at Northwestern, using computers to look at biology.  This takes up most of my time, but I've also managed to get involved with my freind Dave to use computers in education.  I've been volunteering as an afterschool mentor on Tuesdays and I've started dating a girl, Anna, who works in that program.  Anna's a sweet girl and I'll be happy if you have the chance to meet her soon.  Overall, I'm happy with life right now, though I pray continually that God will provide me the guidance to improve.

My family is doing well as you will know from the letters that they send.  Michael will begin working in the lab with me soon.  Allison is continually jumping between her passions in theater, literature, and music.  She just returned from a performance with the Illinois Music Education Academey (IMEA), and as I write there is a large theater prop light that she built gracing our living room.  Maybe she will become a stage engineer.  Mary is thriving at Cedarville and made herself busy by joinging the Young Women in Business group and working as an intern at a catering company.  She calls me regularly and will be home for Thanksgiving.  Mom still works hard, but has found the energy to keep life fun.  She's starting card groups with her freinds, hosting neighborhood BBQ's with the family, and branching out onto the internet to meet old freinds.

Since it is your 90th birthday, I thought it would be nice to indulge in some sentimentality and reminisce on some of the pleasent memories we've shared over these 26 years that I've known you as my Grandmother.

When I was very young I remeber vividly your home in Omaha with its green and gold wall paper murals and the fire that sometimes burned between the living room and den.  I remember sitting under a fall colored wool blanket on your lap in a rocking chair listening to you sing "Rocking, rocking, way up high, until you think you'll reach the sky.  But you know it is not so, its just fun to play you know".  I remember learning chess from Grandfather (I moved my rook too early), warm milk, and brisk morning walks to retrieve the paper.  I remember phone calls talking to the both of you at once.

I remember games of polyanna, pit, monopoly, and Christmas puzzles.  Red wrapped presents on a puffy green chair, ambitious Turkey dinners where you refused to sit down, and generous shopping trips with Brad and Michael followed by trips to Grisante's.

For the month that I stayed with you, we got to watch old Clark Gable movies.  I filled you in on my cellular ambitions and we had the chance to attend Church service together.  We debated all manner of political questions, but I'm not sure that we made any progress on the subject.

I could, of course, continue my sentimental thoughts, but the broader point is a statement of appreciation.  You've long been an influence on me, from religious implorings to health advice.  More importantly, you've served as a role model especially in the love and generosity you've shown for your family.  This letter is meant to admire those qualities and amuse you with rememberences of the past.  I hope you appreciate the sentiments as you round the sun once again.

love,

Ben