lynsee.txt
	knowing Lynsee

To Do:
	See lynsee before she leaves, send her something sweet in a note

Address (jan 2009)
	Lynsee Melchi
	c/o Helen and Ross Musselman
	109 Melville
	Sunnyside
	Pretoria 0002
	SOUTH AFRICA

    011 27 72 441 9621
        011 to dial out of USA
        27 is SA country code
        072 441 9621

    I'm 8 hours ahead of you.  

02/02/10
	I called Lynsee real late last night.  I had just enough time to catch up on a little of her drama with Charlie.  She is obviously still reeling and I don't think they are on speaking terms so she keeps lashing out in an attempt to get some attention.  Still, as it turns out she is comming back to the united states in mid-march.  She will live with Dave and work for the Drivers Ed lady.  I'm really happy for her.  Lynsee needs to find some new road to ho and that's obviously gonna be easier to do in a county that doesn't have so much baggage for her.  

12/15/09
	I've seen Lysee between now and the last post, a couple of times probably.  I remember clearly this weekend.  It was a struggle because I wasn't aware (though arguably I should have been) that it would be her last weekend in town.  So I had made arrangements with Anna to hang all weekend and I could only afford Lynsee a daytime hangout on Saturday.  She sent me an annoyed email on this topic, but I think we are mostly over that with the comprimise between today and Saturday.  
	On Saturday we watched ms doubtfire at molly (has a new rose bush tattoo) and dan's place along with her brother and a breif appearance by a one Eric.  I brough Busch, hot dogs, and sun chips.  Their dog, jack, was adorable.  Everyone was in good spirits.
	At 4:00 my mom and sister visited by chance after a day trip to the spa in Chi-town.  We all had a chance to visit at Starbucks.  Lynsee was ecstatic that Mary had dropped school.  I will hold my breath.

11/13/09
	I was a little irked dealing with Lynsee today, she made plans and kept rearranging them and insisted that I meet her at the train station rather than meeting at my place.  Then when everything came together it turned out that she had to leave within 1/2 and hour of meeting me.  Bogus.  I will need to insist when we make plans in the future that she will follow through or meet me on my own terms (my place) one or the other.

