mcque.txt
	My interactions with Mike McQue

To Do
	figure out what motivates Q, love of knowledge, coffee, talk? 
    

05/27/10
    Heard mike present on his sensibilities research earlier today.  I was able to give him a ton of feedback, most importantly that he should switch his focus from theory to examples.  Right now he spends about 10% of his time detailing examples of sensibility and another 90% talking about definitions and theory.  I think those numbers should be reversed.  Put into simplistic terms, I have learned that sensibilty refers to the unknown quality of things which are assumed to exist.  For example Mary Cavendish had a concept of optics that made the design of a flies eye impossible so she supposed that the eye could not be an eye whereas Boyle questioned the assumptions about optics and derived new principals from the assumption of a flies eye as eye.  McQue argues that the 'sensibility' of what is questionable is a driving force in science as much as new method and technology.  He argues that Cavendish and Boyle had access to the same information and the difference in their efforts is exclusively sensibility.  
    Sadly, that was the only clear example Mike presented and we really needed more.  There were a few more peices of advice I gave him, that he should memorize his quotes, work up to tough definitions, keep a set of go-to examples, memorize an introduction, tighten up the work and so on.  But in general it was a great peice.  It is really interesting to see the auditory McQue debate his writing self.  Speaking Q is pretty sympathetic to his audience wheras writing Q is trying to make works of crystaline perfection.
    https://mail.google.com/mail/?shva=1#inbox/1266b902b7fe1338

01/21/10
    Went to visit Q up in Yukie village before work today.  It was nice, I heard about his acedemic interests in clocks (through the clock book) and we of course talked process.

11/16/09
    Hanging with Q yesterday I again found myself traveling across the city to see him.  I'm not a fan.  I think that if I have work to do, I should express my frustration at meeting at some distant point and just make clear that if he wants to visit me in the city he should do exactly that or just not bother.
    