My_Story
	Why I am interested in biolgical computation

I was drawn to biology by my father, the excitement that he felt for the prospects of this ripe frontier of science and the disdain he felt for unimaginitve scientists who would dare to throw away 99% of the most precious material on earth, the nucleic acid code that defines our origons and development, and call it 'junk'.  My own studies showed me how deep those waters ran.  I realized biologists had no clue how biology organizes itself.  Most DNA, RNA, baceteria, and viruses were considered junk and thrown out of the equation of life.  I saw a feild that had traced thin cords of meaning through a vast web of interaction.

Soon I suspected that nucleic acids carried out all the processes necessary to make them 'turing complete' meaning they are capable of computation.  Moreover, I realized that proper combinations of nucliec acids could fold into a myraid of shapes - enough to define most arbitrary 3-D structures.  From this I develop a concept of biology as a computer that is composed of shapes and fabrics, the most fundemental interface between information and material.

Next I learned that viruses are the most common and misunderstood containers of nucleic acid on the planet.  We have only defined the function of a few thousand viruses in a world of trillions.  Those that we have defined are invariably pathnogenic, because our method of discovering viruses works backwards from disease to source. The remainder are unknown, benign, perhaps useful.  Taking a step back, it seems clear that the world of virus is information exchange network, an internet.  It is not surprising that we have identified parasitic messages on this network, these are the ones which are most pertinent to our existance.

The model of biological computation so far developed begs certain questions.  What is the code of biology?  How can we interact with the viral network in nature?  In what ways can our technologies facillitate biological processes?  In what ways can biological computing aid us?  My goal at this point is to develop and implement technologies which allow the most rapid back and forth possible between ourselves and biology.  By pressing at these tendons of information, seeking communication, and carefully observing changes to the cellular populations we will begin to understand how thier code is organized and answer those fundemental questions which I posed.