open_books.txt
	teaching kids to read at a local school

back links:
	volunteering.txt
	ben.txt



*much more info on open books can be derived from an email/calendar search.

To Do:
	Give Anna's bookstore schedule to Chris.
	bring a laptop to open books


Journal

03/9/10
    Today was so fun!  I worked with a girl named Africa.  She was reluctant to read her book (some harry potter knock off), but we got a little ways through it.  More importantly, I had a chance to hear her read her favorite book about the first black girl to come to a segregated school in the south (I believe the same story reference in Forest Gump).  I also heard about her success story, going from a D/F student to an A-C student.  Her motive is to get on the honor roll and wear one of the honor roll shirts like the other kids.  And she has real faith in the ADL principals which she is trying to apply in her daily life.  Totally charming and driven, its really cool to see someone who was reached by the environment at Perspectives.

02/17/10
    I worked with Froy today, he was somewhat dilligant on his science homework and we managed to get through some of the info about cells.  But any questions that required him to reference the book were frustrating.  It would be much better if we were to read the sections and then work on the relevant work.  The twitterer worked with Verrell and got a lot done (by Verrell standards), that's good.  

01/19/10
    I worked with Verrell again today.  He was supposed to do a research project on Robert Hooke, but slow computing combined with a lot of distractions caused that effort to go no where.  The main distraction was a girl who was hugging Verrell.  I didn't nip that in the bud immediately, but I should have.  The new rule is no hugging (though I won't stop quick hugs).  I did, however, have some fun time playing bananagrams and talking to Jack.  Jack is interested in becoming a software engineer, so I gave him a couple of websites that he might look at "dive into python" and "scratch" which I should check up on the next time that I see him.  

01/12/09
    I worked with F again today who walked in sporting a cool clip on diamond earing.  We started on his homework (colony forming, the spanish armada, and roanoke).  He introduced me to their note taking method "smart" (scan, m, analyze, read, ?).  I only saw the scan portion, but it seemed pretty useful, the idea was to look through the document for keywords and write inspired snipets about what that meant the peace was about.  Still, about half way through in an attempt to inspire Jack (the student who had finished his work) I started asking geography questions using the globe as a guide.  Soon enough we were all three of us going through points of geographic interest, what countries were on what contenints, what mountains and interesting things there were.  It was super fun.
    Anna also showed up mid period and worked with Chris.  He got up to give her a hug he was so happy.  But I felt a little bad in the end when he found out that we were dating (even though I had told him I didn't have anyone).  Well see if he is actually happy for me or his crush on Anna overwhelms him. :)

01/05/09
	I finished meeting with Kate Cichon (and Dave) today which went swimmingly, except the fact that we learned we would only have access to at most 2 classrooms.  
	I worked with Big Chris today after being bounced from F.'s table.  Big Chris was doing a web assignement and, frustrated by last session's efforts, I took the lead for the first part of the project.  By showing him how I would do it, I provided him a template to do it himself and he did quite well.  We finished 6 points by the end of things and I told him what a great job he had done, that he should be proud of his ability.  This made him glowingly happy.

12/15/09
	I just got back from openbooks.  I didn't have time to reread yesterday's blog before I rushed out the door today, but I managed to bring some new ideas into the classroom anyways.  First I was situated with big (really big) Chris and his freind Kaile, they were doing an internet based research project.  The assignment was not too bad, just to find cool things happening in Tennesse and then list them out.  Khaile did find, but Chris wasn't on the ball.  I don't think it was for lack of capacity, he was smart and intuitive on the process of search, but he didn't understand the overall goals of the assignment properly.  That put me in a tough way because I didn't understand them either.  As I started working through them with him he was able to do what I said but he still didn't have the big picture.  I'm not sure how to improve that for the future.  Food for thought?
	I also worked with F. Rodreguiez again.  He was able to guide himself completely which was awesome.  The teacher, Ms. Petterson?, was good to capture kids at the door and tell them to find a seat and pull out their assignment immediately.  This got the classroom organized very quickly and kept it unruly.  Its an important lesson with students to get them on your track early rather than trying to respond, its something that benefits from experience.  
	Last, I played banana grams with the students.  It was a huge success.  I started with just one student and soon all of the rest of them were comming up to me to join.  Everyone enjoyed the game though nobody had a chance to finish.  If I were to do it again next time I would start with 11 letters and go from there.

12/08/09
	I worked with a new student, F. Rodregiuez today and lil' Chris.  Chris was a pain because he didn't have any work to keep him occupied.  I asked the teacher what I should do and she said to go ahead and kick him out if he has no work to do.  That is what I will do in the future, I will replace students who do not have any work to do.  Although, I did find a way to motivate both him and this other girl because I had them compete against eachother in a multiplication challenge of 3 by 3 multiplication.  That kept both of their gears spinning for a while.  If I could find more competative ways to engage the kids I would be happy.  F. is a great student, with the exception of being irritiated by Chris, he was focused and interested by the things he was learning.  I think he will go far if he can get over his competative sensitivities.  Last, I talked to one girl about the use of perspectives in drawing.  She was really nice to me and very kind to one student who was unhappy.  She gave him her chocolate Milk and said that it was from a different student just to make him happy.  Oh, I also talked to miss secan and she was happy to meet with me about PERTS, so hopefully we can sell her on the idea.  

11/24/09
	It was mostly Big Chris and Nicholas on this day.  Chris was pretty easy while I could keep him focused and we at least managed to learn how to note whether fractions were bigger or smaller.  He seems to really try hard to do math in his head.  I also learned that he likes ham and mac and cheese best of all of the Thanksgiving meals (Nicholas does too).  They spent a good deal of the time today plotting on how to get away, but they both seem to like working with me.  I was sure to praise Big Chris for effort more than ability (ala Dave's suggestion).  Nicholas I didn't get anywhere with and I was sorry when I had to leave.  I do think that the interaction of the two is too much and we get distracted too easily, I should have gotten farther along in my 1/2 hour with them.

11/3/09
	Worked with Anthony (I think its Anthony) and Mikeal today (Christopher was not to be found).  We made it through Mikael's math assignment w/o too much trouble.  I forgot how hard decimals can be.  I think it helped him alot when we started putting all of the decimal numbers on a number line.  
    He was having trouble with some of the word problems because he was thinking of them as magic and worrying about the computations instead of thinking of the underlying facts of what was happening ( example when thinking of the buying gas problem he used the pharse "determine what..." as evidence that it was likely subtraction he was supposed to do, instead of thinking of the underlying problem ).  I think he might be helped by flipping over his page on occasion so that he doesn't get lost in the myriad of thoughts.  
	Working with the two of them we went through vocabulary words.  I think that spelling with them is something tedious and stupid.  I think that learning to use the words in a sentence is really the best way to begin to understand what a word actually means.  So we played a rather fun game in which I read off the words and then the two of them started putting them in sentences.  Mikeal takes too much time talking and Anthony often gets disinterested during that time, so I should do something to curb Mikeal.  At the very end of the session we played the find words in your name game, which was a nice reward for a day of work.  I will have to remember to keep those rewards for the end of the sessions.  

10/27/09
	Got Verrell motivated by asking him how long it would take to finish his vocab and then timing out that process.  In the end his estimate (30 minutes for 6 words) would have been accurate if he hadn't spent 15 minutes distracted.  I was working with Christopher at the same time and he was difficult to get interested except for a breif interlude of math in your head time.  I suppose that the book of riddles will show up next week so that I can give that to him.   The other students, anthony and ?? weren't really a part of my program, though anthony seems to be really smart.  Next time I need to do a better job of memorizing the other volunteers names and selecting a group of students who are all working on the same problem (or get them working on the same problem).

10/20/09
	Got the blog post through and Anna asked that I include a little more personal development ie. my blog and such.  I know I was focused on measuring reading times, but I haven't talked to my kids about doing their chores better/faster lately.  I think I will need to get back to that.  For example today I could have encouraged a measurement of words per minute from Verrell and vocab words per minute from Chris.
	At the perspectives I felt a little worn out because I couldn't get either student to focus, perhaps because I wasn't offering measured feedback and race conditions.  I brought in one two three infinity for Chris, but he balked when he learned that it was about science, I never should have told him that, because I know that he "doesn't like science".  Next time I will truly have to bring in some challenging math riddles.  

10/13/2009
    Worked with Christopher again.  He didn't have any homework to speak of, so we played a game of what is that word, lets find words within dramaderie and a couple other amusing distractions, looking at the map for rome and the dots game.  I promised that next time I would bring a book of riddles for him to work through if he doesn't have any school work to do.  Also, Anna taught a kid, also Chris, who is reluctant, but fairly smart and seemed to like me.  Last, Mikael worked right behind me and I didn't recognize him at first.  I should have though.

9:25 PM 10/6/2009
	Worked with Christopher and Rapheal (mostly) today.  Christopher is still doing words and seems to have internalized the lesson of breaking the word apart into syllabuls, but does it the easy and less useful way by drawing long seperrating lines.  Rapheal was quick to do his graph on his own and then show off the Nokoru comics that he is reading (there are 34 total, he's read 5).  I had a little trouble with the Verrell and Anthony crew who were to be reading together but couldn't stop gigling.  I may need to split them up next time.  I should also insist on the say-it-in-a-sentece strategy for all of the 6th grader's words.


5:27 PM 9/29/2009
	Did work with Christopher today split only slightly with Stephanie.  With Chris we did words, definitions, sentences, and so on.  It helped to remember the sentence first and then the definition.  It helped to write the words out with dashes between the syllables to help pronounciation and a focus on pronounciation naturally helped spelling.  Found out that Chris wants to be a basketball player (a plan) or go to stanford (b plan).  Stephanie was doing least common multiple exercises, I tried to show her how to derive that by prime factorization, but I don't know if the method or the underlying logic got through.  Work with other leaders was much nicer.  Next time I need to encourage Chris to waste less of my time by helping him to isolate those parts of the labor that he needs help with.  In the case of sentences that is the process of pronouncing and producing example sentences.


5:19 PM 9/22/2009
	Another day at perspectives, a little more loopy this time.  I was with three students, Mikael, Nicholas (-math), and  Christopher.  Christopher was both smart and driven and while he had a little trouble with phonics he was easy to work with.  Mikeal was also bright and quick to work through his own assignments with a minimum of tutelage.  Nicholas on the other hand was doing the same prime number problems as everyone else w/o a full awareness of how to do long division.  This was hard on me because it was going to take 1/2 an hour to do each prime problem and even then the long division was being done by rote rather than understood which made it error prone and unhelpful.  Exasberating this problem was the fact that Mikeal kept breaking in to interrupt our progress and try to do the problems for Nicholas.  The two of them need to be broken up for the next session.
	I dind't work with Verrell and he ended up working with Anthony instead, which was fine, but negated the purpose of my preperations.  Perhaps next time I shouldn't bother preparing.
	The relationship with the other tutors is somewhat dim at this point bc Shandi is new and everyone is still shy.  I need to make a conscience effort on my next class to say hello and goodbye to everyone I am working with, tell some jokes, and get along.

6:30 PM 9/15/2009
	Went to perspectives for the first time today, met Ava & Chidori (coordinators), met Louise and ?? (volunteers), and of course my student Verrell.  Verrell is an 8th grader who has been put into the Perspectives charter school by his mom in the hopes that he will learn more than at his old school.  He liked his old school better, but accepts that perspecitives is good for him because it provides ruse and discipline.  He said he wants to be a cop some day and is currently obsessed with Aliens ala men in black and the website ufo-reports.com.  He highly reccommended rcarly.com.  He's also sweet on/mean to a girl in the class with braids who he calls baldy.
	In the buisness end of things we were reading Black and White, the story of two best freinds turned criminals.  We made it through most of chapter 3.  Verrell can read this book at about 3 minutes / page with a two minute review every other page.  He's fine on the words, but goes back to repeat phrases regularly.
	Next week I hope to reiterate the purpose of being in school, follow up on icarly/ufo-reports.com, encourage him to read ahead of his talking and incite a freindly competition between him and his freind.

