semantic_web_meetup.txt
	Notes from the meetup group on Semantic web technology that I have joined

To Do:
	Keep in contact with Tim

01/26/10
	I heard Eric made a cool presentation about the philosophical roots of ontology construction http://mail.google.com/mail/?tab=om#search/griffin/125b912934cf76a9.  The most interesting topic that was brought up was the distinction between open world and closed world systems of knowledge.  In a closed world system, if a value isn't found it can be assumed that it does not exist.  For example in a payroll database if debby is not found on the paroll table, it can be assumed that she is not on the staff.  In an open world system, knowledge is limited and new knowledge may come along to prove that debby is on payroll even though she could not be found previously.  The semantic web is by definition an open world system, yet this comes with the drawback of uncertainty.  Nowhere is that uncertainty more potent than in the case of describing sameness.  Because the semantic web is open world, it is impossible to know if two items are identical even if they share all of the same properties (because their may be unmeasured properties or unfound data).  The implication of this line of reasoning is that a degree of stastical knowledge or fuzziness will be required by the interpreters of open world system.  This affects Griffin's life personally as his company tries to reveal accurate sports statistics, but cannot be sure if they have data missing.  Instead they make assumptions.  
	One interesting concept that Eric brought up was the idea of mapping two ontologies to one another.  By producing this map (a metaphor), we could learn what pieces of a currently developed ontology might be missing.  Very cool idea!

12/08/09
	I invited Matt to this meeting and he thought he could come but gave me a last minute bail.  I wonder why?  Either way, I'll ask him if he wants to come to the next one.  The presentation was made by a professer from Munchen University ( Matin Hepp ) who has invented the goodrelations ontology.  Goodrelations was released a year ago and has been adopted for 600,000 products, most notably best buy's catalog (400,000).  They are seeing internal adoption from amazon and have support from the joomala/virtuemart combo.  It seems like a fruitful feild for the semantic web because producers have an incentive to ontologize their data sheets to make them more accesiable while suppliers will undoubtedly use this information if it is nicely parsed for them.  The inhibitions will be from major vendors who are collecting this information themselves but are not likely to share it.  Still, over time I think this will be a natural place for semantic growth.

11/24/09
	I met a number of the faces at the semantic web meetup group.  Jerry is a researcher at Children's memorial hospital doing work on the cornea and hoping to relate it to things that he's heard about the semantic web.  Tim is a regular with the group and has a good degree of experience.  He just got hired with Paul Allen's Brain Atlas group in seattle, and so he won't be around so much, but I think I stay in touch with him as he is both an excellent resource and deferrent in personality.  He gave me advice on using GRDDL for the dog tissue archive, though it seems like a pretty poor technology from the client side.  I also said hello to AIN from the w3c who is the communication link and the only one working in Chicago.  He was extremely helpful.
	The presentation itself was on linked data in the health sciences and it super informative for the purposes of the of the tissue archive project.  It mostly highlighted the work of Bio2RDF which has put a number of biology resources in RDF formats which looks totally awesome.  Griffin had a really good point that in order to intergrate so many disparite resoruces into queriable devices we will need reproduction of the data across the globe.  This is undoubtedly true and he suggested a distributed hash table as the solution to that reproduction.  An interesting idea, one that I might read more about. 