weekly_review.txt
	A summarized version of what I did in a week and what I plan to do over the next week.


To Do
	email (https://mail.google.com/mail/?tab=ym#all)
	calendar (https://www.google.com/calendar/render?tab=mc)
	internet history (https://www.google.com/history/?hl=en&ctz=300)
	google voice 
	files (use date.py to find dated entries)
	google docs




4/5/2010 - 3.0 hours - Review of previous week.

	I did a fair amount of hanging out this week, playing settlers with Adrian, Kamaran, Michael, and Anna.  Michael is having a rough go of it with Gabriella.  It seems pretty serious.  Anna misses her peeps.  We made baked beans from scratch and some slightly-too-liquidy meatloaf that was still good anyways.  Carston came to visit us both, he's in high sprits despite somewhat dim job prospects.  Rick just returned from Jamica, I can't wait to hear his stories.  Ally met me for lunch one day and her hair is now blonde.  Watched lord of the rings extended edition.  Sunday was taken up with Easter fondue which I've chronicaled in mom.txt.  Probably 22 hours all told.
	With PERTS I met with lorraine and did a whole heap of UI stuff passing png files back and forth with Dave and answering the comments of the rest of the group.  I was able to meet lorraine and I wrote about that a bit as well.  I think in all I spent a good 12 hours working on UI stuff so maybe like 14 hours all told.
	At work I spent 19 hours parsled mostly between large problems with the Janus server and working over the stats with Tanja.  Both projects were successful.  I generated some usable stats for T that actually show an impact of radioactivity on gene ratio.  I should follow that with a little more work soon.  Its nice to have the feedback of someone beside me to keep me focused and avoiding unecessary worries.  The work on the Janus server proceeded from a series of errors starting with the crashing of the ERA (which crashed us) and leading to an understanding that our mail server is down and has been for months!  It is impossible to know if we have missed tissue requests in that time, but I certainly hope not.  For now I have set up a new email account to handle the tissue stuff and directed requests to there.  I also made the ERA loading AJAX based and breakable in case we don't actually need it.  Finally I made the error reporting in janus go to a centralized error log which should make things a little nicer.  In other news, I should talk to gayle about documentation on janus because we are somehow miscommunicating.  Hans is riding hard about lab cleanliness, I'd like to find a way that addressess that w/o interrupting eachother's work.   I also had the fun opportunity to talk to gruenberger who recommended that I look into memcache for those situations where his webservices go down and we need a local copy.  I think this would be a great excuse to get familiar with memcache.
	I spent a good deal of my time this week like every week learning.  A rough estimate would put it at about 1.5 hours per day or about 10 hours total.  I continued to read the founders book which is a bit long, but continuing to bring to light good ideas like vesting, tagging, watching blogs and the like.  I really like the new and parsed down version of my reader which focuses me in on articles I really want to get to the bottom of.  Blogs like coding horror continue to be my favorite, while aggregators like boing boing lose appeal because they give more content than I can handle and mix a lot of garbage into the heap.  Magicians (which I read with anna) got really stupid at the end.  I loved the begining of the book, but man it was hard to take the rest.  I learned a few new wods, normative, png, and tiff are lossless.  Orielly conferences keep getting mentioned in my book, I should try to find one.   Comet techniques are good for pushing using ajax.  Aptana seems to be the editor to use for javascript, although i'd like someone to show me how to set it up best.  Finally gdocs api may take a while to handle.
	Comming up this week I can look forward to cougars the musical, hanging with mr Q, and hanging with Anna's freinds Matt and Derek.  With PERTS I have another delievery and to continue to toil over the API before we begin to develop the database to make it work properly.  We also have a management meeting.  At work I'm sure I will finish up with my poster, these stats, and finally give Gayle her computer back.  I'm pretty excited bout that.



03/29/2010 - 3.0 hours - Review of previous week.

	For the first time I have culled my reveiw data from various computer sources.  There are emails, the calendar, internet history, google voice, and my files using date.py.  I also tried to review google docs material, but it is much harder w/o the support of a tool like date.py to sift out the relevant materials for a certain set of dates.  I will need to fix that (*but it will take a few hours*).  The email history proved exceedingly helpful, although I had to delete out a little fluff that I had added to it.  Naturally, most of its content related to people as did google voice.  The calendar was nicely targeted towards some things that I would need to do this week.  The internet history gave me a very good history of what things I didn't know and learned this week.  Date.py, though its interface was unsound is very helpful due to the good quality of notes that I have been storing on myself.  Usually the preview was enough to learn what I had done, but I would like to have the ability to expand the selection.  The best way to do that would be to only show a teaser (the line and whatever else fits) as a sort of gmail style list and then allow their expansion into the full text.
	People - James wrote and invited drew and I to a lecture, and expressed a desire to hang.  Chris wrote to the group about self documenting php and centervision.  He is a useful source of news for PERTS.  Q arranged to hang on Thursday but never got back to me about it.  Kevin did get back to me about scheduling PERTS at Perspectives.  Christine wrote to tell me her paper was accepted!  Many people used the lab's listserve as a place to bring the heat down.  Sumita told us to avoid internet on the rt-PCR machine, ye told us to clean the sink, and beau told us to do a review.  Its a kinda negative forum, but its interesting to see lab policing itself.  I think that is a good thing overall.  Eric and Roder had bday's this weekend and I wished them well, we arranged a cubs game with Jim.  Anna and I had a fun drunk weekend, read the Magicians, and made quiche.  She will go out with Paul tonight and Margret on wed.  I learned that its good to be blind so that I can really hear myself.  I should try it occasionally as an eye opening exercise.  I watched trailer park boys and lord of the wings.  Last weekend anna and I got back from Milwaukee where we had seen the dead see scrolls.  For allison's bday I bought the magicians.
	Which brings me around to what I read, I spent a good deal of time on php specs, founders at work, and the Magicians with Anna.  My favorite, of course, has been reading the Magicians.  Its good to know that if we find a book we both fall for we can zip right through it.  I think that is the trick for the future.  Sputnik sweetheart is close but of course Anna has read it already, it needs to be a new book for both of our sakes.  The php specs are really enlightining, for example today I just learned that the keyword $this in a class is mearely a references, I also learned about all of the request and server variables that I think will be really useful in gauging the traffic to the site.  Founders at work is continually inspiring.  Wosniak is amazing and the founder of lotus notes is really cool.  I also just finished reading about the blogger dude, but the verdict is still out on that guy.
	I learned a bunch more cool stuff using the power of the internet and my newly reorganized google reader.  After a debate with Anna I couldn't prove that Plugh was a word, maybe its just Haley vernacular, the typically word is raspberry.  Nepotism can relate to freinds or family but usually implies that the talent recruited is less capable and experienced than they would have been otherwise.  Reader, and stack overflow in particular pointed me to aptana which I downloaded for js editing.  I learned about globally unique identifiers and xforms, both which might be useful tools, especially the GUIS.  I learned that free as in beer is as opposed to free as in speech, hooking is an interceptor like one that might register keyboard strokes before the user does.  Yawning contaigion and Occam's uniqueness remain painfully inexpliciable according to the tops of the internet.  Opcodes are simple machine code instructions, which I should have remembered, and heating elements for the on-the-go french press are at the science surplus store, but I feel I should go there to get a little help with useage.  I tried to find some more good resources using the top books on amazon, but none of them seemed all that appealing except a book on algorithms for C that has gotten rave reviews for the past 20 years.  Also, strangely a couple of people have been squaking on my natural computing group.  Its intersting to see that grow intellectual weeds.
	At northwestern I finished up a bunch of loose ends.  The laptop finally crumbled under my scrutiny.  It took way too damn long to fix the thing, but now that it is up and running again I think I learned a few valuable things.  For one, I learned that drivers are independent of services.  I learned that intermittent troubles are very hard to fix indeed.  Finally I learned how easy it is to create batch files, so that is something that I will feel totally comfortable with in the future.  Hurray!  In all it took some 8 hours this week and 40 hours total.  Roughly $800-$2000 in time.  Definately not worth the $.  I spent another hour or so getting the low dose abstract fixed up and submitted, then spent 6 some hours doing stats for qiong.  The stats went remarkably well, though they are largely untested, but I learned that I need Tanja to be nearby when I do them so that I can avoid silly assumptions about how the studies were conducted.  I spent 3 hours finishing up Gayle's corrections to the health physics paper, but making a tablular summary of the results and looking up more about peromyscus who is detatched from mouse and rat by 25 mya.  I got approval for that same abstract and got hans and ye to share their protocols in the new wololab folder.
	At PERTS we are still hard at work over p2.  I spent 12 hours going over interface design and doing the database design with Dave.  The interface element was a truly excellent exercise.   I think it is much easier to argue over interface than database because you can sympathize with user's needs.  Go Dave.  Last I wrote up that profiteering email to the group and we had a little time to talk it over.  I think the conversation was very healthy and it got people to thinking how we might aim in a profitable direction.  The big trick here is to open up to more than just researchers.  Anways, good first computer review, I'm off to do some real work :)

