wine_party.txt
	Notes on the wololab wine party

to do:
	print the wine sheet

02/05/2010
	The next wine party went off splendidly.  I breifly met Joe's Girl Hannah, Bryan's girl Adriana, and Nehad's husband.  Tanja did some awesome tea readings using Caroline's new cups and it was Caroline's bday.  I spent most of my time palling around with Mike and Anna.  I also had some opportunity to hang with the Japanese students which was super awesome, especially the shorter one, Mario (not his real name), he's hilarious.
	
05/03/10
	Another wine party, Anna came for a bit and Mike not at all.  I got to meet with Stephan's new boss and old mentor comming from the newbrook facillity in new york.  He likes to bike and scuba, a cool cat.  Stefan had interesting advice for me to avoid Wayne because his feild seemed boring, but he did admit that his technical expertise (and that of his staff) was really good.  Hans and Joe went through the list twice!  Hans was so drunk at the end that he kept laying back on Caroline and complaining when she moved :).

11/21/09
	There was a wine party last night that was a big hit.  Gayle seemed to be in a really good nearly mushy mood, perhaps because financial situtations are squared away and she can chillax.  I got to catch up with Bryan (becomming a doctor, studying all the time, dating the same girl as before), met ?Mimi?, Beau's girl who was nice though I didn't talk to her enough. I said hello to John's wife who is stressed as the coordinator at an optomitry clinic.  I finally remembered to print the wine sheet which was way better.  I saw Eric and got to hear about his baby girl (4 months now) and his just begining push into lab life (he has 4 students).  I met Hans' freinds Ashish and ?Victor?.  Ashish's chem lab just got shut down due to this anti-social maniac they hired.  Victor was just interveiwing at the Northwestern Med School.  Rick and Dave both attended which was awesome.
	Midway through I took a break to go to the open book's premire.  I saw Janelle's boy friend and set up a settlers of catan date.  I met Matt who is busy looking for a job, love's open books and is a little socially aloof.  I saw adrian and the gang, and gave my tie to one of Anna's old volunteers.  Arthi was there as the marketing coordinater and beth rooney was taking pictures of the whole affair.  It was really cool to see.