juxtracrine.txt
	Those signalling pathways which require adjacency of the cells.

Gap Junctions, Plasmodesmatta, and Membrane Nanotubes
	Generally formed from a hexamer of proteins from the connexin family and analogous to Plasmodesmatta, Gap Junctions serve as electrical and metabolomic couplers that are especially prominent in the heart and certain parts of the brain (the retina and astrocytes) (wikipedia), and expressed throughout the body (http://foxyurl.com/3m6).  The aperature size is approx 1.5 nm with conductances between 20 and 300 picoSiemens that are typically organized into multi connexon plaques (http://foxyurl.com/3m6).  Gap junctions are voltage gated through internal electron movement and are regulated by Ca2+ microconcentration changes (http://foxyurl.com/3m6).  They are known to be phosphorylated by tyrosine kinase and palmitolized (http://foxyurl.com/3m6).  Mutations in gap junction genes have been linked to MS in the brain and irregularities in expression have been tied to cancer, cardiac isochemia, and cardiac hypertrophy (http://foxyurl.com/3m6). Gap junctions are thought to play a role in skin differentiation (wikipedia).
	Plasmodesmatta in particular may number 10^3 and 10^5 per cell and are 50-60 nm in diameter (wikipedia).  They have been known to transport proteins, siRNA, viral genomes, and messenger RNA (wikipeidia).  Size exclusion tends to varry from 700 Da to 9400 Da, as opposed to the 1000 Da observed in Gap Junctions (wikipedia).
	Membrane Nanotubes are recently (2004) discovered structures that merge the membranes of animal cells and allow for the transport of DNA, proteins, and even cell organnelles (wikipedia).  First observed 3D live-cell microscopy, these fine extensions can extend over distances longer than a cell and are prone to breaking under light or vibrational stresses (http://tinyurl.com/o43byd).



Electrophysiology
	Classically this involves placing solid, circuit traced, or electrolyte filled tube-based conductors nearby (single unit recording), onto, or inside a biological surface.  The size of teh electrode directly affects its sensitivity.  Image based techniques employ voltage sensitive florescent dyes to enable recording in 3-D.  Voltage-clamps worked by fixing the voltage using a feedback loop and measuring changes in current, there are also current clamps.  Patch clamps apply gentle suction in order to secure themselves on a patch of ion channels.  Planar patch clamps are similar but higher thoroughput as the cell is guided by sunction towards a plate with a patch clamp.  The BERA technique (bioelectric recognition assay) extends electrophysiological techniques into gel substrates which act to extend the viability of cells.  The Minimum Information Standards (MI) set the guidelines for reporting electrophysiological data.  Funding for electrophysiological work generally comes from cardiac and neurology feilds. ?cost, lifespan of cells, arrays?


Notch Signaling:
	The Notch signaling trigger is a highly conserved mechanism in which the trans-membrane notch protein is endocytosed by a neighboring cells when it contacts its ligand (what) relasing a bound protein in the cell that begins a signalling cascade.  It has been implicated in cardiac, pancreatic, bone, mammary, and gut development as well as a myriad of cancers and MS. ?frequency, count/cell, associated techniques? (wikipedia)
